# Blender 5.0! Modelling and Sculpting Armor - 3D Workshop Full Pipeline
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dOqWAH48PoI
Author: Abe Leal 3D

Hello, hello, hello my friends in YouTube. Can you guys hear me? I see a couple of people here. I see Neos, Lord Frasau, Erbil, Erbil, Erbil, Koban, Siko, Eekasoba, Anna Loenko. See that? Eekasoba and Ala Losenko. Those seem like very I don't know if it's Russian or Ukraine or you know the sort like northern Asia countries. I've always liked those names. They sound very powerful. What's up guys? What's up Mr. Roman as well? We got El Santo Padre Tamirez Duffy Popup Mika Pop. And here on Twitch we got of course Noah Solid Mango Alan PC Gamer. What's up? What's up guys? There we go. Thank you for the sub. Control plus Z. Nice name. Nice. Nice name. Thank you for the sub, man. Thank you very much and welcome welcome to the channel if it's the first time. Executable says I'm from Ukraine. There you go. Maxim. Yeah, Maxim is a very cool name. I've always liked the name Eigor. Sounds like very very strong as well. Uh let's see what was I going to do. Oh yes, I was going to pop out the chat here in YouTube, but I can read this. Actor AMC says, "Let's go. I need to learn Blender." Oh, it's going to be a fun one because I I normally don't work inside of Blender, but um Blender 5.0 just released and uh yeah, we're we're going to see we're going to see what we have right here. Let's see. We got 3D cheek from Washington State, US. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. Let me send something to David real quick. Send him the image that we're going to be using. This one rights link here. this. There we go. Here. Um, okay. Awesome. Uh, nice. Okay. Okay. We got some good news, guys. Some little surprises that we're about to to share. We just need to wait for for David to get here and um and he'll he'll help me set stuff up. I think you guys are gonna like it. I think you guys are gonna like it. Let's see. Uh, we got David Dolce Mascolo. That's also a great name, by the way. Like the Dolce Mascolo. What does Mascolo mean? I know Dolce is like uh like sweet, right? Uh Dolce, but Mascolo. Does it have like a like a specific meaning at the bit because it's it's it's a very like cool sounding last name there. Uh 3D Chick says, "So glad you're doing something in Blender. Can't afford SEB." Yeah. Yeah. Let's see. Let's see how it goes. Saludos Argentina. See, from Argentina, there's one thing that I've wanted to try. Oh, hopefully I don't mess this up. But you guys have the mate, right? It's this like drink. This uh I believe it's a hot drink with like some like herbs or plants or something like that. Um and I know they sell it here in Mexico, but I'm I'm sure it's not as good as the one from um what's the word [music] from from from you guys. I've always been curious about how it tastes. We got people from Poland, from India. Execut is my uncle's name. There you go. Nice. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I think I think me. Yeah, maybe most most Argentinians I think drink uh drink mate. It's like a very common um like drink, I think. I'm not I'm not sure if it's like a national drink. Will you show the texturing stage? I don't think we're going to be able to get there to be honest. Oh, interesting. It says, "Mascolo is man or male in old Sicilian dialect. There were most likely two families, Dolce and Mascolo, that united hundreds of years ago." Interesting. Oh, so so that last name is is all together. Dolce Mascolo. Interesting. Oh, that that sounds even more epic, man. But normally we do the the streams in English to to be able to get to wider audiences. So let's see. Uh what are we missing here? Rush storm saline brought me some mate from Uruguay. So good. But how is it bitter? Is it bitter or is it like uh like tea like infused like like I I don't know if the flavor is like a really strong flavor or if it's more of a of a try like a like a soft uh like a soft one in English. Uh you got to practice English, man. That's one of the things that I've said before, especially for for our industry, knowing English is like so so important. It opens so many doors for you. So, always try to practice your English as much as you can. That's the universe. Like, look at this. Like, look at how many people we got from all over the world. And we are all um uh we're all communicating. Thanks. Greetings from Germany. Beetus Eden, my friend. Beetus Eden. I think that's the formal way to greet someone, but uh I really want to go back and relearn my German. I used to have uh a better understanding and uh and a better um mastery of the German language. They stopped using it and now I forgot. So, let's see. Eric Eric Giso. Oh, that's another great name, Eric Giso. Hello, A. I really admire you. Your work is amazing. Thank you, my friend. See, there you guys know I love chess, right? Like I I really like playing chess. It's one of my little addictions there. I'm not super super good, but I I I I will call myself proficient enough. And um and I love some of the names from like some of the top play players in in the chess community like the the GMs and stuff like there's there's one Indian um there's one Indian player uh Pro Nanth I think his name or his last name is that's pretty cool. Anish, right? Dichiri, that's another very famous like chess player. And then there's there's one named Ericui. Um I don't remember his name, but they some of these guys of course [music] Magnus Carlson, right? Like they have some really really epic names. Mia gets good. Uh Gash, Gash. Yeah, that's another another he's a world champion right now, right? Mate is earthy bitter. Says we should organize chess competition during one of the live streams. That would be interesting, right? That would be interesting. I'm sure like there was there was a guy that I he found me on on chess.com and he's like, "Oh, hey, what are you doing here?" And and we connected as friends. Uh he sometimes drops here on the on the live streams as well. And he he's really good. He's like uh 1700 or 1,800 or something like that. And um he's he's good. like we've we've had a couple of back and forths and uh he he's bit me a couple of times and I think we're kind of like even on the on the count but uh greetings from Greece. Oh, you Greeks have also great names as well. Like some of the names in in the in Greece are are very very epic like that that old Greek language pretty nice as well. There we go. We have Sa here on the house. What's my rating? 1650 on Blitz and 1,700 on the on rapid. I've been stuck there for for a little while. I need to study more in order if I want to get to like 1,800 or something. But yeah, I'm I'm 1600 like 16 1650 right around there. Depending if I'm focused or not. Algeria. Nice. Okay. What's up, my friends? Hello. Hello. Hello. Welcome to one of our Fridays live streams. We are Nah. No, that's not actually good, Rohan. Like like they say that I think like 1,600 is when you are starting to take things a little bit seriously, but you're still like a complete noob. [music] And it has nothing to do with like a over the board like uh rating. So, no, I wouldn't call myself um like actually good. But I know I know you know some opening, some lines, some traps. It's always fun. Hello, guys. Hello and welcome to our Friday live stream. Today we're going to have some fun and we have a lot of stuff to cover. So, one of the first things that I wanted to do with you guys, and I mentioned this last week, I'm going to do this while uh David helps me set up something that we're going to be announcing in a couple of minutes, but as you guys know, the game awards are on, right? Like people are preparing for the game awards. And today, we're going to vote through them. I haven't voted because I wanted to vote live here with you and, you know, have a little bit of the discussion. Let's see what what others have um have um have in mind. So, let me sign in here real quick and we're going to vote in just a second. What's the rule for the giveaways? The giveaways are going to be as we normally do them through our Discord channel. So, if you're not on the Discord channel, you should be joining right now. as soon as um as soon as I get the the thumbs up from David, I'll explain what the giveaway is because we got a a very cool partner today that's going to be helping us with this. Okay, so let's go. You guys want to want to go with me with this uh in this what's the word in this little journey to vote for all of the categories on the game awards? Let's see. Let's see what we get. So, this is the we're going to start with a tough one, right? Game of the year. So, I'm going to tell you that I played four of the five of the six games that we have right here. I played Clareop's Cur Expedition 33. I didn't finish it. I played Donkey Kong Bonanza. I did finish it. I played Hades 2. I haven't finished it. I played Hollow Night Silkong. I 100% finished this. And um I haven't played Kingdom Kong Deliverance. To me, I think the three games that are in my top list would be Donkey Kong Bonanza, Hollow Knight Silkong, and Clear Obscur Expedition 33. And the reason why I'm mentioning Donkey Kong Vance is because I played this with my kid. She's four years old and she enjoyed playing it like really really like like quite a bit. I know Clear Obscur is going to go for sort like that goatee. And I'm going to be honest, if I had to give it to one, I would probably give it to Silkong. I I haven't been like addicted to a game as much as I was like like Cler hooked me for a while, but like Hollow Knight hooked me and didn't let go until I was like completely done. Even Even today, I'm like I just want to go back and see if I'm missing anything. And I'm missing some of like the super hardcore like achievements. But um I don't know, man. Like like this one right here. But I know like there's another like category, the indie category. So I I'm going to give the I'm going to give the game of the year because of how much impact it had on our industry to to Clare Obscure Expedition 33. I I think you guys are going to agree. So let's go right there. Next category. Best game direction. Oh, this is a good one. Oh, again again again clear obscure. Like the again the only ones that I've played from this list are going to be Hades 2 and clear obscure. I think the direction on Hades is beautiful. It looks amazing. But yeah, like like it it it's so unique visuals, so unique like the music like everything is just like so so good. So in terms of like even on my on my laptop, I have the wallpaper like this wallpaper right there. I have it on my on my laptop because I just like the visuals so much. So yeah. Yeah, definitely definitely that one right there. Best narrative. Interesting. See, I haven't finished Clare Obscure Expedition 33. I've been told that the story is really good and it gets really, really good at the end, but I haven't really played it. So, I'm going to have to go with that one because I have absolutely no reference from any of this others right here. There we go. Hopefully, I don't just put Exploration 33 on everything. Best art direction. Okay, art direction. Oh man, the thing is I love the art from Hades 2. Yeah, I'm going to I'm going to give it to Hades 2. I'm going to give it to Hades too. And the reason I'm giving best art direction to Hades 2 is because even though Expedition 33 looks and feels amazing, this to me feels more unique. And like the the Expedition 33, it's a AAA or sort of like a PBR realistic game at the end of the day. Silkong we've seen before with Hollow Night. I know. Hadis we've seen before with um with the other one, but I know that they changed things and they are now using 3D models. So, it's really like the the visual style of Hades is just like so so cool. So, so yeah, I'm going to I'm going to go with Hades, too, in ter in terms of art direction. Let's go with the next one. Best score and music. Can we hear it? No, because we hear we're going to get like copyright strike here on the freaking stream. Um, this is a tricky one. And between I mean there were some really good songs on on the Hollow Knight, but I think I've heard more of the songs in like again in like shorts and in in general. Thanks in in the for for Expedition 33. I think Expedition 33 is just going to like take every single prize to be honest. Not for not for me, right? But uh I I mean in the in the what's the word in the in the Game Awards. In this one, I'm actually going to go with the Battlefield cuz I I haven't played it, but I know that they go really really deep with their with their sound design with like the sound of the guns and things like that. So So I'm going to pick that one. Best performance, Ben Star as uh clearation 33. Charlie Cox, Cla Gos, Jennifer English, Konatsucato, and Troy Baker. Oh, this is a tough one. This is a tough one. You guys vote for in this one for me because I I'm I'm not sure cuz I haven't played all of the all of Experations. I know who Charlie Cox is and I think he does a fairly good job. Um, I'm guessing Jennifer English is the actress for Oh, what's the name of the redhead? Man, I always forget her name. I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure Benstar. Who's Ben Star? What does he voice? Like, I don't want to spoil anything. [laughter] Charlie Cox, Ben Star, Jennifer English. Yeah, let's go with Jennifer English. Mile, right? Mile. I think she she does myel. So, let's go. Let's go with her. Innovation in accessibility. Interesting. South of Midnight. Oh, is this one out? I I was looking to play that one cuz it sound interesting. I haven't played it. Is it Is it Is it on PC? Sound of Midnight. It's on Steam, right? Is it like a Soul Slike game or what is it? Yeah, I wanted to play this one. Like the visuals were really, really freaking nice on this one. Why haven't I played this? I'm probably going to be playing it this weekend. That looks That looks interesting. Accessibility. I'm not really sure about accessibility to be honest. I'm going to go Doom. I think I'm going to go Doom. I know that the they they add a lot of like things for like uh There we go. Now we're voting. We're we're voting for the for the game awards. Games for impact for a thoughtprovoking game with a pro-social meaning or message. Oh, I'm I feel so bad about this one because again, I don't have any reference from any of this ones right here. I'm gonna go with S of Midnight just because I really like the art style. Best ongoing. I don't play any of this ones, but I really like the art style for Marvel Rivals. So, we're going to go Marble Rivals. Best community support. Best community support. What do you guys think? Hell divers. No Man's Sky actually turned it around. Like they were they were a mess at the beginning of their production cycle and now they've like very highly respected. Balders's Gate, No Man's Sky. I'm going to give it to No Man's Sky. I'm going to give it to No Man's Sky. Best independent game. Silkong by far. Like by far. I I want to play this one as well. Ball X bit. They say it's quite fun. Uh, but Silkong is just such a good game, man. Like if you guys It's a hard game. Like I I I almost rage quit it like several times. It's a really really really like hard game, but it's it's so so I don't know, captivating. I' I've actually went back and and finished or I'm I'm finishing right now um Hollow Night. I did the first ending and it's so different. like it like it feels like the the the change in quality in terms of like the combat and the intensity and the exploration like everything is so so polished in in Silkong. Uh Hollow Knight is is a great game by the way if you haven't played definitely go and check that one out as well. But um but I I can now definitely see how much difference there is between the games. So So yeah definitely definitely Silon for me like totally best debut indie game. I've heard this patch is really good. I've heard it's really really freaking good. I haven't seen it. It's a It's a like a narrative uh story, right? But um but I've heard that it's really really freaking good, [music] but I'm going to give it to Claire Obscure. I mean, come on. This guy's See, that's an interesting thing. Ghost Profit. I was looking at this discussion on Reddit and people were saying like, "Yeah, technically Clear Obscure is is is an indie game because it's a small studio, but the budget that they had is like really really big." I'm I'm not sure exactly about the the budget that they're um that they're using, but they are like like quite high in terms of the amount of of money compared to something like uh like Silkong or compar some some of the other ones. So, it's more like a double A thing, maybe not a AAA. So, it feels um it feels a little bit weird weird here. I haven't played any of these ones. Normally Genshin is here and I normally vote for Genshin because that's the one that I play every now and then. Uh but I'm going to go probably with the closest thing that I would play. I haven't played it to be honest. I did download it but it it was like a little bit too too consuming time consuming so I just didn't continue. So let's go waves. How can you find time to play games? This field consumes a lot of your time. Yeah, I mean that's the thing. I've been playing a lot of like uh like Switch 2 games because that's what I can do when I'm just like laying in my bed in the night at night, right? After everyone's goes to sleep, I can just play for like a 30 minutes, 40 minutes, 1 hour and uh and that's that's it. Uh let's see. Best VR AR. See, interestingly enough, even though I do a lot of VR stuff, I haven't played any of this ones right here. Uh I'm going to go with Alien. That seems like a scary one. Best action game. O I think Doom. Doom for action game. Best action adventure. Definitely Silkon. Definitely Silkon. Best RPG. Oh man, it's so sad to see. See, I love Monster Hunter and and and I think Monster Hunter Worlds is a great great game, but it it did not land the um the landing, right? it it's still not polished. They say they're going to finish polishing it this next month or like at least start like heavily polishing it in terms of performance. It's a great game. It's it's really really cool. But um but yeah, I'm going to have it to I'm going to have to give it to Clear Obscure again. Best fighting game. Ooh, I did try 2x KO. It was really freaking good, but it was very difficult. Like I'm not used to attack fighters, so I was I was having a lot of hard times, but I'm going to give it to them. I love just like Riot and their style. So, I'm gonna give it to to 2x KO. Best family game. Oh man, this is so good. Donkey Konanza just like amazing. If you have a if you guys have a Switch 2 and you want to play something with your um with your family again, like I played this with my kid. Had such a great time. So so so it's such a magical game this one for me. I haven't tried the other one. I know I know there's a split fiction, but for me this one right here is just like so so good. Best simulation strategy. I'm going to go with Final Fantasy. I haven't played this one, but I heard it's really good. My brother did play it, and it's one of his favorite games of all times. He played it back in the day. Um, so I'm going to go with Final Fantasy Tactics. Next year, we're going to have Fire Emblem there, and it's definitely going to win. I heard that Sonic Racing Crosswalls is really good, but the only one that I play is Mario Kart, so I'm going to go with Mario Kart. There we go. How many more? We have like seven more. Six or seven more. Best best multiplayer. Oh, they say our graders is really nice. I haven't played it to be honest. I haven't played it. I'm I'm not a huge fan of shooters. The thing with shooters is I I I need to be on my computer to play shooters, right? You know, like keyboard and mouse. It's a controller shooters. It's It's difficult. Peak was also a good one, right? Like it got a lot of like uh things um like a lot of like a shorts and stuff. Let's see. Um, in support of Indie Studios, I'm going to give it to P. I'm going to give it to P. Best adaptation. Best adaptation. I'm going to give it to the Minecraft movie. I know it's a meme at this point, but I mean, come on. They they did something that not a lot of movies do, which is make a lot of money with a video game IP. So, I I feel like that's something to uh to recognize. And I did enjoy seeing a lot of the crazy memes in Tik Tok every now and then. Most anticipated game. Oof. Oof. This one's a tough one, guys. Oh my god. Is Witcher 4 coming out next year? Is it 2026 or is it 2027? Yeah, I I think GTA is going to win, but I hate GTA to be honest. I I don't like the concept. I don't like the the gameplay. I don't like GTA to be honest. So So I'm going to go with The Witcher 4 as well. I'm definitely going to go with The Witcher 4. There we go. And we got four more content creator of the year. I feel so bad because I don't know any of these guys right here. I've seen Moist Critical every now and then. Uh, the thing is I don't I don't know. This is This is a weird one. This guy seems like a nice guy, so I'm going to go with that guy. [laughter] Again, I I don't I don't usually watch a lot of this like uh content creators. Best esports game, Dota 2, Counter-Strike, League of Legends, or Baller? I'm going to go League of Legends. Like they they're continuously like still top-notch, right? I I think uh didn't Faker win like the tournament like this year? Oh, there we go. There we go. The the the the freaking best esports athletes. Oh, there's no Faker. Interesting. Uh, Counter Strike, Street Fighter, Street Fighter, Balorat, League of Legends. I'm going to give it to this guy. This is the only guy I remember from like back in the day where I played a little bit of Street Fighter. So, I'll give it to him. Best esports team. Gen, NRG, Team Falcon, Tim Liquid, Mobile Legends, Bang Bang. The hell is that? Uh, we're going to give it to these guys right here. Gen. And, uh, last but not least, uh, players voice. What's this? Oh, okay. It's another round, but we It's It's not open yet. There we go. So So yeah, that's it. Look at all the categories. So this one was the the most contentious one, right? Like game of the year. such a tough spot. Like if I could give it to one, I would give it to Donkey Kona because it was just so fun. But I know I know that's not going to win. Like there's there's no way that Donkey Kona wins a game of the year. It's just not not in this universe. But it's a really good game, guys. Like I I it's thoroughly enjoyable and um the story is good, the gameplay is good. It it's it's a fun one. Um Silkong again, one of my other goatees of the year. I I like I don't think I've been hooked to a game this bad since like I don't know some of the older Fire Emblems or something like I just played so much of this one. Even my kid was like, "You're playing that again, Dad?" And he's like, "Yeah, yeah, I need to finish this. I need to to really go through this whole thing." So, so yeah. Yeah. That's it, my friends. That is it. That's uh that's activity number one here for for today's stream. We're going to have a couple more activities. So, the next activity that I'm going to announce, it's a very cool one because we actually have, let me go full screen real quick. So, as you guys know, we like to partner with um with cool companies, cool services, people who who make great stuff for our for our industry, right? And one of those companies that we've um collaborated with in the past reached out to us and they told us, "Hey, let's do one more one more collaboration here for for your community." And it it's one of the most I would say a little bit underrated things that we can do as artists because even though I mention this all the time, we sometimes forget to do it. And what I'm talking about is of course references, my friends. References. So 3DSK, we've worked with them before. They're an amazing amazing company. They have so much so much information on their sites. They have models, 3D scans, 3D assets, texture packs, like so many things. Look at this guys right here. some HDI textures for your characters. Like all of these things right here are amazing for any type of character or any type of creature that we want to um to create for for our for our portfolios. I've used them in a lot of my projects before and right now they're having their Black Friday sale. So if you want to get some credits to buy some of the content that they have right here, it it's amazing. It's it's like like genuinely amazing. I'm going to share with you one of the things that I like doing with the with the like credits that I get. I like going to things like these ones right here to the morph scans and you can get yourself some of the scans. Download them, open them in sever with textures and everything and then just study the forms. I like to study the forms of the faces, the forms of expressions, where are the wrinkles, how deep they are, and it's a lot easier to see it on an actual like real high quality scan than it is to um to try to do it with just like images or references. So, if you're doing a character as well, like you're going to see a little bit of a surprise that I have over the next couple of months, but if you're doing a character as well, you can use a lot of these guys as a base mesh and then just modify them, change them a little bit, and just like create like really, really cool stuff. So, 3DSK, as I mentioned, is having their um Black Friday sale, so you can get some credits for yourself and use them for your research, for your textures, for your study, for anything that you want in your production pipeline. And here's the cool thing, they're giving away credits. credits for some lucky winners of you, my friends. So, these are a total of 350 credits. Just as an example, a normal image, a high quality image like this, like eye textures that we were looking at, these are one credit if I'm not mistaken. Let me just confirm before I say any any lie here. So, yeah, like let's say we want to use this texture right here for one of our characters. There you go. So, it's one credit. So, you can download 350 of this As you can see, they're like massive, more than 4K pixels in terms of resolution. So, you can get so much information from this guys right here. And it's just one credit. So, if you win, you're going to get 350 credits. If you go for some of the other like assets, so for instance, if you go for some 3D assets, let's take a look at this like raw hand scans right here. They are a little bit pricier, but once you buy them, again, you can use them for as many things as you want. So, for instance, let's say you get like this hand right here, right? These are 40 credits. It's the 3D scan data of this hand and you can incorporate this into your character. You can post it. You can again do whatever you want. So, it's a it's a really really good like tool. We are going to be uh setting up the the giveaway inside of the Discord channel. Let me show you real quick for those of you that are new to the stream how this work. So, you're going to go to our Discord and over here on the where is it? No, this board there's going to be an events tab. And here on the events tab, there you go. Like David already set this up. We have this giveaway button. You just need to click on this little guy right here, and that's going to enter your username into the giveaway. So, in 20 minutes, we are going to know who is the winner for the first pack of 350 credits from our good friends here at 3DSK, who, as I mentioned before, are having their sale right now. This is one of those things that if you invest on it, you're going to get so much back in return. Like, look at this. Like the A poses right here, references for a poses. If you're going to do a realistic character, let me just move this aside because sometimes there is nudity. Just just be aware of that. There is nudity in this site. There's a lot of information. So, you might get um you might need to clean it up a little bit, but yeah. Yeah. There you go. Look at this. So, look at all of these references. You can use this images to texture your character, by the way, because the the resolution is just so so freaking good. So, yeah. Best way to study, get really good references. Yes. And no, Keptus. As I mentioned, it's really good for references. It also has study scans. And there's one more thing that I I I forgot to mention. They have this thing right here. It's called the portal. So, this is the main site. 3dsk is the main site, but they actually have five more sites. Environment for uh you can see them right there. Environment photo references, female anatomy for artists, human anatomy for artists, 3D tutorials, and reference for comic book artists. So, for instance, if I look 3DSK environment, uh where is it here? Environment art. Is it this one? No. Uh what's the name of it? Has a different name. Uh home Black Friday sale portal sign up. Let me see if I can see it right here. Yeah, there we go. This one. Environmentures.com. So if you go to environmentextures.com, there's a lot of reference for environments as well. So, if you get or if you win any of the of the packs of credits they're going to be giving away, you can use them for any of the sites right here. Photo references, human anatomy, 3D scans, female anatomy, and uh environment textures. Again, like super super cool. So, yeah. Yeah, check this one out. Oh, one more thing. If you go to 3dsk, it's another great thing. They have this blogs which which uh have like interviews with artists and and they share like a lot of their techniques and their processes. So again, this is what I tell you guys like you need to learn how to learn, right? And one of the ways to learn is by doing your your research. So look at this one right here. A meta who did this amazing Vilbo character. And they share a lot of stuff. They share some breakdowns. They share some information. They share some of like their sculpts and their processes. So it's a great way to to learn more about like the the production pipeline. But that's not it. What I was going to show you is that they do have some Let me just make sure that there's no nudity here. But they do have some free assets that you can download. So, you just need to sign up to the site and there are some free assets that you can download. There you go. So, there's groom 3D groom scans like actual like 3D scans, reference picture, textures, head. So, all of the things that you see right here, these are on the free on the free like part of the site. You can download them. So, just click on this like free option. So, yeah, that's it. We are going to be um we're going to be giving away five. Is it five, David, or is it four? Five, right? Yes, five packages of 350 credits for you, my friends. So, make sure to join the Discord. Make sure to go to the little place that I mentioned. And uh yeah, we're good to go. We are good to go. Let's see. It says game topic going on misleading live stream by thumbnail. Uh no, no, we're going to get into that just yet, my friend. It's just that we had a lot of announcements to do before the before the actual work, but now now we jump into the 3D work. So, this is it. Uh as you guys know, also Blender just released Blender 5.0. Oh, and there's a lot of new things, a lot of very cool information here for Blender within like supporters of Blenders. I know that there's people that uh want 3D softwares to fight against each other, but the thing is like you can do a lot of stuff in a lot of different softwares and having a free option like Blender, it's a great one. Someone asked me this question yesterday like, "Hey, hey, I want to start 3D. Should I start straight into Zbrush and straight into Maya?" My completely honored answer is no. Just just download Blender. Download Blender, try it out. Trying doing some of the like exercises. I have an exercise for instance where we do a barrel and you learn like the basics of the software about modeling and things like that. So just just learn it just try it out and if you like 3D then you can start specializing in some of the other softwares right because they are quite important. One of the big things that they did for this new release is this new ASUS um or sorry in Blender 5.5 or 5.0 the one of the big things that they are doing is this big change on the on the color thing. You do need a good monitor to be able to appreciate all of the differences and this has to do a little bit more with production stuff. More often than not, if you're just doing renders for your portfolio, you're not going to be like using too many of these things right here. But it's really good that the color is getting like way way better. Um there's new changes to the night uh like function. This one right here I really like. I want to try this out. It's called radial tiling which you um feed it a nice tileable texture and it creates a nice radius. Of course, the center is all distorted, but you can always sort of like add a cap there or something to sort of like hide it. So So it's a it's a good way to do it. And then of course one of the things that they improved on is the where is it? Where is it? Right here. More renders or like better render times. All of this compositor things. They added some like geometry notes and stuff. So in general it's a it's a really really good like improvement I would say. Especially if you do most of your wire of your of your workflow inside of Blender like having all of this like new tools is just like amazing. And usually when they do a a big number update, it t tends to be like a long-term support. So you're going to be able to work on it for for a little bit. Uh like they're going to be supporting it and fixing bugs and everything like quite quite frequently. Bachin Saut says, "I'm now on a BFX masters in Spain. You're still one of the best teachers I've had." Thank you, my friend. Thank you. I really appreciate it. We also had Franny here. Morning and happy Friday. Happy Friday, Franny. Happy to see you here. Let's see. Um, can you update Blender or do you need to delete and download the new version? No, you need to you can download multiple versions. Like for instance, here I have Blender 5 4.5, Blender 4.4 and Blender 5.0. So all of these are quite cool. There's a very cool thing about the new Blender and that's the fact that they now if you go here to edit and preferences, if you go to the this one display graphics, a lot of softwares are changing to Bulan as their as their GPU back end. And it's like on my experience, it does tend to be a little bit faster than other engines, but there's also a little bit of um uh there's also a little bit of a of an effect. One second. One second. There we go. [music] So, let's see. This version doesn't work in my Mac OS. So, Noma. Oh, that's that that sucks, man. I I I don't use Maxo. I wouldn't be able to tell you. So, yeah, as you can see, the display graphics now can use bulk gun. And I did try this yesterday. So, this is um this is just like a normal cube. Let's go to sculpting. Let's do remsh. Remsh. And I'm going to go like a very very very very low number. Sorry if the if the uh stream freezes a little bit. So, right now we're at 2,600 like uh faces. Let's remesh. There we go. So, now we're at 6 million points. 6 million points. And one of the things that I always like um hated about um Blender was the fact that the sculpting felt, you know, a little bit like slow when the when working with high levels of poly count. But in this case, as you can see, we're at um six um 6 million polygons and and the sculpting is working perfectly fine, right? So, I know I have a strong computer, but I also tried this on my laptop, which is like a very very sort of like old laptop. It was actually like a six or seven year old laptop and I did get a little bit of a better performance especially here in the sculpting. So you can see how how smooth my my sculpting gets even though we're working at like a 6 million points. So it's not dragging or anything. So yeah, this is an improvement. They did they did add the bulk and stuff on some of the previous versions. I think they've been adding it since like 4.4 or something like that, but um but this is 5 5.0. So yeah. How do you create 3D art when you have a potato laptop like me? 16 gigs RAM and 1050Ti. No money to upgrade. You try to optimize as much as you can, Rohan. Like that's that's that's the that's the unfortunate situation. And and I've mentioned this before. Unfortunately, in terms of um of 3D work, having a more powerful computer, it's not going to make you a better artist, but it's going to make it a lot more comfortable to work with because you're going to be able to push things into into bigger elements. I love you, A. And I love you, too. Random YouTube commenter Sabo 7649. Thank you, my friend. Thank you. Cromancer says, "Oh man, Blender sculpting has so much potential, but nobody is giving it the attention it deserves like Pablo did." Yeah, it's it's really good. I still feel way more comfortable and I'm more used to a lot of the tools that I have inside of CBrush, but it's still like a really really good like uh like a really good tool. Let's see. Bill just says, "Hey, I wanted to ask you something. I'm thinking of buying topogun specifically for its autobology feature to speed up my workflow. Do you think it's worth getting?" Yes, but not for the autotopology. Don't get me wrong, it's not bad. It's it's actually a very nice one. However, the the like real power of topogun is how fast it is in doing the precision rettopology that you need. So like the drawing, the tubes to the the quad draw, like there's a lot of like tools that you manually use. Those are the big ones. If you're thinking about auto read topology, to be honest, a c measure inside of CBrush is really good. I know there's a plugin for Blender from the same guys that did the C measure and they're going to give you like automatic rettopology. So I would probably go with with one of those. Dude Davis says, "Hey, do you have any videos on how to texture a 3D object in like or Photoshop?" Um, I don't, but it's very similar to the 3D code videos that I have. The only difference between 3D code and and and Photoshop is that one is 2D and the other one is 3D. 6 and what was that? 6 and 7. What the hell is 67? Ah, are you one of those, man? [laughter] I now I remember. But yeah, it's the one of those like weird things that uh young people do nowadays, right? Like the 67 stuff. Yeah, 67, 67, whatever. Uh, what do you think about CE 2026 updates? I am excited. I'm excited especially because of the of the rettopology features actually. So the rettopology features and the new UI is uh it's it's a good one to be honest. It's a meme. Yeah, I don't get it either, but it's a meme. That's the that's the nature of memes, right? Anyway, so today my friends, as you saw in the thumbnail, we're going to be working on this. And this is one of those things that I I recommend if you're trying to do a project. One of the best places you can look for reference other than of course our good friends at 3DSK who are having their Black Friday Black Friday sale right now is h go to the museum collections. A lot of museums, this is from the Met have photos of a lot of like really cool objects, swords, helmets, pieces of armor, statues, and look at this. We have a perfect side view of this helmet. We have a perfect front view or back view of this helmet. Another side view of the helmet, right? like close-ups of the texture and the details. Like, you're not gonna get anything better than this things right here. Like, we even have like the engraving that they use to mark this helmet. So, when you're trying to look for a project, trying to replicate or do one of these things is it's a great way to do it. So, I'm going to do this on the desktop. This is going to be called helmet scythe. And I'm going to go for the front view, which is this one right here. And we're going to save this image as helmet. front. There we go. Let's see. Auction sites also have great reference picture. Oh, I didn't know about that. I don't know any like good auction sites, to be honest. But yeah, that that can definitely work. [music] So, yeah, let's go here to, of course, our uh front view. No, that's the back view. Let's go there. Front view. Shift A. And we're just going to add an image, reference image, which by the way, I think there's now an option. I saw this. I'm not sure if this is from the new Blender, but there's another option where you can literally just like drag and drop the image. Yeah, there we go. And it's going to go straight into the viewport. So, that's pretty cool. You just like grab it in and that's it. Now, as you can see, this helmet is not perfectly symmetrical. I'm going to be focusing more on the right side of this helmet because this is the more so like straight line. This one feels a little bit crooked. So, I'm going to be focusing on this thing right here. I'm going to rotate a little bit so it's as like central as possible. There we go. And then we're going to go to the side view and we're going to bring in the side helmet right here. Now on a perspective view. Oh, where are they? Oh, this is one of the things that I don't like. The fact that sometimes the image only shows there you go. I need to click on the image and then go to the image properties and select perspective as well so that we can see them on both the perspective. So here what I want to make sure is that they match on the sides as much as possible. But let's do opacity. Yeah. Interesting. This is interesting. I didn't know that um that we were going to get like a different view here. Okay. So this one right here, I need to scale it a little bit lower. Something I write side both. Ah, there we go. Thank you, Alan. Yeah, that's it. Thank you. Side both. This is really interesting. Like I like the the the thing that I'm finding quite interesting is this thing right here where you rotate the camera and it sort of like like uh hides the image if it's not being seen. It's really really really cool. Nice. Anyway, so it's going to get a little bit tricky to to try to match this, but here's what I would do. I'm just going to go to the front view here and I'm going to create the first cylinder. So, the first cylinder is going to go from this point right here to this point right here. So, I'm going to press shift A mesh and I'm going to create a cylinder. Let's scale this down. And again, I'm going to find like the two points, right? Like that point right there and that point right there. And I'm just going to keep it as straight as possible right here. Let's scale this a little bit on C. That's it. Now, if I go to the right view, right, of course, I need to grab this image and I'm going to push it back so we can actually see the cylinder. Uh there we go. And yeah, there we go. So, so we're on the right size. So, as you can see, it's it's matching with the with the proper height of the whole thing. Let's see. What is the rotation? Why is maybe that would make a No, it's fine. It's fine. We just we just find this thing right here. So, this is a again, this is a relatively simple asset. And one of the things that I wanted to show you in this in this live stream is how to make like um in this case uh hard surface stuff or metallic stuff or not metallic like armor stuff that looks really really nice. So I'm going to start by just getting this things right here. Going into vertex mode in wireframe mode and I'm going to start pushing this vertices forward. Right? Like it it's important that we do this in in vertex mode [music] because we need to do on both sides of the element. We could also just like delete one of the elements and and reuse it. Oh, let's just wait. That's one right there. Give me one second here. Oh, you know what? Let's go into solid mode and let's delete this face right here. So, goodbye face. Goodbye face. Actually, now that I think of it, it might be a lot easier if we just delete the faces here. That way, we just focus on one side of the of the element. And after we're done with this side, we can go to the to the next one. So, let's go to vertx mode. And there we go. So, what I'm trying to do here is I'm trying to match the curvature of the of the helmet. And of course, I'm going to match it first on this back view right here. And then we're going to go to the front view, and we're going to start like matching it. This is one way to do it. There's multiple ways to do it. Some people might use like a deformer, like a lattice or something like that. All of the options are like usually valid. It really depends on which tool you feel more comfortable um using. And one of the things that I'm going to do as soon as I have this thing sort of like properly laid out is I'm going to add some edge loops on the center to capture the proper curvature. There we go. So now if we go to the front view or rather to like the three/arter view, you're going to see that hey, we have a a big of a problem, right? Like the very very big problem where this thing is not exactly where it needs to be. So I'm going to go to the front view again. Room, what's up, my friend? And we're going to start using this wireframe here to push this guys up. Let's go wireframe. There we go. I'm trying to move some of these elements, sort of like relax them a little bit, get a better distribution of the whole thing. A sort of like rule of thumb that we want to do or have when when doing like model polyodeling is that the distance between the edges and everything should be, you know, relatively uniform. It doesn't have to be perfectly uniform, but relatively uniform always always helps. There we go. Now, for instance, here is where we need to start using a little bit of our logic and be like, okay, this curvature right here doesn't feel right. Correct. So, a lot of this points right here, we're going to have to push. Let's go to the top view actually. And what we want to have is we want to have sort of like a round effect going around the helmet. I wish we had a top view of the helmet. I don't think we have. So, we're going to have to sort of like u improvise here a little bit. We can't move this too much though because we already have the sort of like the control or like the proper distance on our on our main view, right? And this again this is like traditional polyodeling stuff. Okay. Like that. push this out. Just clean it up a little bit there. Why doesn't he use loop tools to relax the edges? Seems from Yeah, we're gonna we're going to do that. We're going to do that. So, now we're going to go and add for instance an edge loop right there. And once we have that, we can again go to wireframe and just start like moving some of the guys, right? Like that. Start creating the the curvature that we that we would expect to see here on the on the helmet. And then we can add another one. And again, just grab some of this edge loops and give the proper curvature here. Let's adjust some of this guys right here. A lot of this thing I would normally do with sculpting, but I'm I'm forcing myself to to like p poly model this like we used to do back when I started. When I started, like a lot of the sculpting tools were not as as good as what we have right now. So, this was way way way more common. There we go. There we go. I I betrayed Maya, right? What's up, my friend Roma? It's Yx. Just push this down. Okay, this is getting there. It's not perfect, but it's it's definitely getting there. Getting like the basic shape of the whole thing. Definitely a couple of points that we need to clean. I'm going to mirror this. So, I'm going to go modifier um generate and mirror. Here you go. Oh, first of all, we need to Oh, no. What did I do? Hi from Russia. Thanks for your videos. Very useful. Thank you, my friend. This is not No, no, no. I'm not the like uh like I'm doing like very archaic methods right now for for modeling. There's there's people who are way way faster at modeling than I am. Uh let's go here. I'm going to grab all of those guys. Scale X0. And then I'm going to turn on this guy right here. Go for Griffith GX to make sure that it's right there on the on the grith. That should be it. And now we can Now we can mirror. Where is it? Generate. Mirror. And I'm going to hit uh apply. Cool. So, what I'm going to do now again because I I feel a little bit more comfortable with the with the sculpting tools is I'm going to jump into sculpting. And inside of the sculpting, now that I have a a relatively clean mesh, we can of course turn on uh symmetry here on X and just start smoothing stuff. Right. Again, this is one way to do this. I'm just going to start smoothing this. And I'm going to use my M brush. Where is it? Is this this one? No, that's the grab brush. Yeah, let's go with that sort of like soft grab. Let's make the size a little bit bigger. And we're going to start like pushing this thing to get the proper curvature pretty much. Oh, we got the first giveaway winner. Congratulations. Sorry guys. Sorry, I got completely distracted with this. As you guys know, we are giving away 350 credits to uh 3DSK, one of the best sites for references. And the first winner is D. The Congratulations, my friend. You are the first winner. I will be reaching out to you after the um what's the word? After the live stream is done, and I'll send you a code that you can use to redeem and um get your credits. Okay. We are going to have our second giveaway in just a second. Um and uh yeah. Or I think is it is it ready? Yeah, it's ready. So, the the next giveaway is ready. You guys can go into the Discord and click on that one. BFX Brian says, "You're a great artist. I love your videos." Thank you, my friend. Thank you. I really appreciate it. I I really try my best to to give you guys the best kind of information that I can. So, yeah. As you can see, because we have relatively clean topology, it's a lot easier to go here into sculpting and just like clean up the the borders here to really give us the the proper like curvature that we might want. We need to make sure that we don't go across the the b borders or or vertices that we have, but it's um it's a little bit easier here to to just play around with with fewer points, right? We're going to jump into sculpting in just a second. Don't worry, it works. I know people are like, "Oh, this looks like shit." Yeah, I know. [laughter] It's part of the It's part of the process. You need to trust the process and understand that we need to start with with very simple things first and then we start um we start adjusting things and making them look even better. So right now it's just the the general shape of the of the helmet. I don't mind to be honest right now to have a little bit of imperfections on the on the curvature of the helmet. I feel like this can give it a little bit more history, right? Because a very common mistake with uh with 3D stuff is that it tends to look way too perfect. So, being able to to add a little bit of that imperfection back with some of this like bumps and some of like this this unrelaxed elements, it's um I think it's a it's a handy thing to to have. Um keep in mind that this is something that eventually is going to go through a retopology process. So, that's why I don't mind having like dirty topology or or bad topology at first or in this early stages because I know I'm going to be I'm going to be optimizing this later on for for games. So this is mostly about getting a very nice looking like high poly first. So something like that. Let's really sharpen this. Clean it up. There we go. And this is the most important part. Like if we can nail this thing, like if we can find like the proper quality and the proper like elements for this like lower part, everything else is just going to be so much easier because a lot of the other ones like like all of the bolts, the hinges, all of those things are easy. Even the cab right there is is relatively easy compared to this um compared to this like neck piece right here. Okay, now we need to go back into modeling to adjust a couple of things before we jump into into sculpting. Let me show you. Sky Sculpt says only know my only build. Yeah, it's I think if you're a Maya user and um I I I think it's worth it to learn Blender to [music] be honest. And if you're a Blender user, I think it's worth it to learn a little bit of Maya. The reason is you never know what kind of project you're going to be working on. So sometimes they are going to require you to to know like software or some elements that that you might not be as familiar with. And uh and just having the optimum is really good. Now, as as we've mentioned before, like the fact that Blender is free is just so so freaking amazing to be honest. So, everyone should learn it just because it's free. And if anything happens in the future, like, I don't know, Autoesk goes bankrupt or they end up being like a super evil organization or something and and u and everyone stops using them, well, you're going to have to quickly jump to to another like 3D software and and Blender is probably going to be the the best option at that point. Thanos says, "Hello, sir. I'm a game developer student, but I also watch your videos to know the art perspective of the games. Thanks a lot to give this." Ah, thank you my friend. Exactly. Exactly. Devil. Like this will have like a little bit of that. Let's go back to layout. There we go. So, as you can see, it was way easier to adjust a lot of those things in the layout department. Now, um I want to sort like straighten the upper edge a little bit here. So, I'm going to go to edge mode, grab this whole edge right here, and I'm going to go to the side view. I'm going to scale on Y. Sorry, scale on Z. sort of like flatten it. Zero. There we go. And I'm just gonna hit R to rotate it. And just Oh, and just Oh, I have the snapping. Just move it a little bit. Rotate it again. Move it a little bit. Rotate it again. Mainly because I want to have it like like a very sort of like straight element. There we go. Something like that. And you can see that on the front this helmet is very sharp. This is very important. It's it's it's a basic sort of like um what's the word? It's a basic like modeling thing. But if we want an edge to be a little bit sharper, we need to add a support edge right there. I'm going to add another modifier here. I'm going to add another mirror modifier. And I'm going to say uh bisect on X or like that. Let's hit apply. Let's hit apply. There we go. So that when we add a smooth modifier, right, the generate and we're going to add, of course, the subdivision surface modifier. That's going to give me a sharp edge right there on the on the front of the helmet. And this next part, my friends, this is so important. If there's one part that I want you to pay attention to in terms of this like high poly stuff is the next one right here. If we want to make this thing look very, very interesting, we need to think of this in the way it was built. Please like look at how the thing was built. So, what do I see right here? I see that there's a line going down the middle. Right? So, one of the things that I'm going to do is actually let me stop this thing right here. Is I'm going to go to this line right here. this one right here. And um actually, let's go to the to the opposite side because we're going to be mirroring. So, it's this one right here. Right. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to bevel that line. Okay. I'm going to add a little bit of a bevel to that line right there. Wait, why why am I getting like weird duplicate elements there? What happened here? Let's go back. Let's go back. Let's go back. Now, that was fine. Ah, now I went more way back then than way more back than I wanted. The scale Z0 and then scale scale C 0 Z scale Z0. There we go. Click then [music] rotate. There we go. Okay. Well, let's keep things simple here. Let's add [music] a line right there. It's going to be my support edge. Let's go here. wireframe. Grab all of the faces. And we're going to delete the faces. There we go. And here's what I want to do. I'm going to go here and I'm going to go to this line right here to the to the sideline, which is in this case this one right here. I'm going to select that line and I'm going to bevel it. If I bevel it, there you go. We should get those faces right there. I'm going to have a very, very small bevel. This is very, very important. So, very small bevel. Something like uh that. I'm going to delete those faces, right? Why why am I doing that? Because now when I do my uh my mirror, right? And I'm going to apply this. And when I do my subdivision surface or actually I'm going to do a solidify first, I'm going to give this a little bit more thickness. Right? So this is again a very common thing when you're doing hard surface stuff. You always want to make them a little bit thicker than they actually are inside of the in the real world because when they're inside of the game, if you make them like razor thin or very very thin, it becomes very very difficult to um to to see like you get a lot of like anti-aliasing stuff. So, making things just a little bit chunkier than they would be on the real world, it's a it's a good way to to get a nicer effect like this one right here. And that's it. Now, we can of course apply that as well. And let's add another modifier here. uh subdivision surface modifier. Now, in order to avoid this horrible looking thing right there, of course, we need to either add support edges or bevelic borders. I'm just going to add a support edge. It's probably the the easiest or fastest. I'm just going to do that right there, that right there, that right there, and that right there. One on the bottom. Let's do a couple on the bottom, actually. Actually, that's fine. One on the bottom. And then I'm going to do one right here and one right here. We go. So, as you can see, we get the so like the basic construction of our of our helmet right here. But we'll modify the existing, but yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um that that's right. Like I I personally prefer to make this things a little bit more permanent. I'm going to give it one more subdivision level and then I'm going to make this permanent. So, I'm going to apply. So, there we go. Now, we have this this resolution. And now we can go to the to the sculpting section. And this is where where the fun starts because what we can do is not only can we continue using our uh move brush for instance to adjust the shape of the of the whole thing, but because we have more more geometry, we can get like a like a little bit of of a better effect. I do like again a little bit of that sort of like dented effect that we're getting. So So that's great. And here we can try using the multi-resolution approach. So I'm going to add a modifier. I'm going to add the uh multi-resolution and on the sculpt subdivide one time, two times, three times. So, we're at almost 1 million polygons, right? And and it's looking fine. Like, we're getting a nice sort of like sharp line right there, similar to what we're getting on the concept, but we can make this even better. So, I'm going to start by going into my flatten brush. Uh where are my tools? [sighs] Uh, where did my tools go? Here. There we go. And what I'm going to start doing is I'm going to start adding, you know, a little bit of volume here. So, for instance, here this this planer effect. See how I'm I'm adding like a couple of bumps. I always like using my clay buildup for like the clay strips to be honest. So, one of the things that I want to do here is I just want to start adding a little bit of variation to the surface. Like I want I don't want the surface to look perfectly perfectly uh like perfect. Like I want to sort of like break it up a little bit. Let's see. Thank you for all the knowledge you share with us. You're amazing resource for the 3D community. You're welcome, my friend. I'm glad I'm glad I'm glad that's the that's the case. Like the the last thing that I would like to be is like a like something bad for the community, right? So, so I'm glad that the information that I'm providing is is helping you. For instance, actually, you know what? Should we remesh? I think we should remsh. So, let's try R. Let's try here. Um, we need to apply this thing right here because we cannot do both. I'm going to go here. modeling. Apply. Go back to sculpting. And I'm just going to do a remsh. Reme way lower solution. H. It's joining stuff. Actually, I think we're going to have to split this guys into two parts. So, to do that, I'm going to have to go to edit mode. Uh, and then go to face mode. Then there's a way to select all of them. Oh, I always forget what the shortcut is to select all of the faces. Anyone remembers what that one is? Yeah, the sub's been applied. That's fine. L. Yeah, link. That's right. Linked. And I'm going to hit right click and we're going to split. Oh, we're going or separate. Just selection. There we go. So now that this selection is separated, we should be able to jump into sculpt mode and remsh this thing. Actually went to the other one, this guy right here. And remsh. Hey, why is it not selecting the proper one? I am in sculpt mode. What the hell? Oh, there we go. Sorry, had the wrong option right there. Remesh. Let's definitely increase this. So, I'm going to do 01 0001 and remsh. Hopefully, it doesn't crash. Let's see. Um, yeah, exactly. This is kind of like splitting in subtools. pretty much the exact same thing. Oh my god. 44 million polygons. Okay. No, that was that was way too much. I exaggerated there. So 01 instead. Oh, you you saw that 44 million polygons. And yes, my my computer was chugging a little bit more, but um it wasn't it wasn't that bad. I don't like I don't like Dino too, Deviian. That that's just a personal preference. Like I don't like I don't like Dinotopo. So, here I'm going to go and I'm going to sharpen this border a little bit more. Trim. There we go. Getting it more hits. Okay. Careful there. Oh, no. So, this is why I need to get used to a lot of the tools here because I'm more used to CBrush. I just need to practice a little bit more in here. Yeah, I like that one. That's a good It's a good little like chunk there that we're taking out. There we go. So, I'm going to start adding a little bit of like surface detail here by by adding this. I'm not following the reference perfectly, by the way. The reference was just there as a as a guide point. So, I'm going to go here. And then there's there's one that I saw, which one was it? Layer field deepest. It's this one. Flatten contrast. Use flatten contrast to really like sharpen the border of this dent right here. And remember, this is all about how it looks from from afar in this case, right? Let's give it a little bit of a of a smooth to remove all of that like look right there. So, it's not used to Blender Cham. Yeah. No, I am used to Blender. Like, I use Blender, but I don't use it, especially sculpting. I don't sculpt in Blender too much. I just want to show you uh some of the new features that we have here in Blender 5.0. But if you want to see some of my other sculpting stuff, CBrush. CBrush is the way to go. Uh yeah, let's go here. No, I want to do it in Blender. I need to practice Blender. I I could jump. This is the thing like this is a very important thing about um about art in general. You want to get out of your comfort zone. Like try to get out of your comfort zone every now and then, either with a new software or a new like style or a new like pipeline or workflow. You need to get out of your comfort zone because if you're always doing the exact same thing, you're not learning. You're not improving. And learning or seeing what you can do in other softwares, for instance, in this case, inside of Blender, gives me more information. And it's actually it can even make me a better CBrush artist because I'm I'm going to be able to use some of the tools inside of uh CBrush a little bit better than what I'm doing right here. So even though yes, right now like if I was doing this for efficiency, I'm I'm going to be completely honest like if this is for of an actual like job or whatever, I would definitely do it inside of uh inside of Zush because as as you guys mentioned, I'm I'm a little bit faster there. But there's absolutely nothing wrong with trying new things and just um just experimenting a little bit here and there. Ratchart says, "Been watching your videos on Tik Tok. Really want to up my texturing game." Well, if you want to up your texturing game, we have the the Substance Painter course on our site. That's like the probably the best way to to start into into texturing. We also have handp painted stuff. I It was funny. I was I was looking at my portfolio um like the other day and uh and I I realized, hey, you know what? like unintentionally this became my like stylized year because I did a lot of like hand painted stuff this year and a lot of like cartoon and like like my style like definitely shifted from more like realistic and and PBR ready stuff into like hand painted and sty elements. It's just it's just fun. It was fun to see that contrast. I I feel like when when those like uh like singers were on our favorite like singers and artists they they tried like something very experimental, right? But I I've actually enjoyed this journey uh the hand painted journey quite quite a bit. Let's see. How do you manage trying new things and also waiting for the tools to be reliable? I just try them out. If they don't work, they don't work and I just go back to the things that I know work. So, it's about not being afraid or scared about uh you know, like doing this kind of things. Now, here it's interesting. We have a a little bit of a bump here, and that that's a that's a very interesting bump. So, I'm going to go here with my clay clay brush. I'm going to sculpt that bump. Where's the back face masking in these things? Do you guys know? Do we have back face masking? There has to be a back face masking, right? Where is that located? Uh, brush texture. Shift F. Shift F is the back face masking. No, shift S is what I should do right now. Should save this thing. Save this as a helmet. There you go. brush has some sort of uh stylish rules. What pen tablet do I use? I'm using a Hoyon Canvas 19 Pro. It's a 4K display. Pretty freaking good to be honest. Mask up in the left mask there. No, but I want to know if the brush has the option to to automatically mask the back part of the elements. Like I know I could just draw a mask. Tool advanced front faces only. Tool advanced. Oh, there you go. Thank you, my friend. There you [music] go. Front faces only. Uh, awesome. That's exactly what I was looking for. See, this is why having a community. be so cool. You learn all the time. So, I'm going to add again this little like bump that we have right there. It's like a like a plane. Congratulations, Rob CGI. You are the proud owner now of 350 credits for our good friends 3DSK. You're going to be able to get some amazing amazing reference. I'm telling you guys, like the reference that you can get, it's really freaking good. I've been using that for for a project that I'm preparing for you guys actually and it's really freaking good. Like I I can see how my my skills like really got way better with um when I started using that. Uh let's get do only on faces only. There we go. So we want to really blend this guy right here. Especially this one right here because it needs to look like casted metal, right? Like someone actually hammered this thing right here. Also, I think you already know, but you can press R and check for Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The R for the rematching. That that that one I do know. Teamwork makes the dream work. Yes, that's exactly it. Third giveaway is up, my friends. You can check it up on the Discord. So, just jump into the Discord, go to the giveaways channel, and uh get in for your chance to win again 350 credits. Going to use my clay buildup here to carve in a little bit more. And then I'm going to use my Well, it's not called the standard, right? It's called the Where is it? The knife brush uh crease polish to really sort of like push that in. There we go. That's what I'm looking for. Just clean this part right here. And we clean that part right there. This is what I was mentioning on one of the the shorts from from this week. I think it aired on the on the second channel and we were talking about how topology should flow nicely between the different elements. like you should not have something that just um sort of like gets extruded out sort of like blends right for instance this point right here I really want it to blend to the rest of the elements. You could try switching the back into Yeah, it is it is uh I Viking it is on Vulcan and and yes I can definitely feel the the the improvement like the the difference there. There we go. on the reference is a little bit more sharp. So again, I'm going to go with my M brush brush or grab brush. Make this very very sharp here. blood on this thing. I really like this like hammered look that we're getting, right? Like this sort of like textury feel to the to the metal. It looks like it's like a little bit more like raw metal, right? How can I start a portfolio if I don't know where to specialize? I make props, environment, and character or choose one. Choose the one. This is a very good question. You should always choose the thing that you're best at, not necessarily the thing that you like the most. This is something that's very very Oh, I'm going to go full screen with this because this is such a such a hard thing and and and such a difficult topic. We've been told that we should pursue the thing that we love the most, the thing that we're passionate about, the thing that really inspires us. Yes, of course. Like that's important. But if the thing that you are really passionate about is not the thing that you're really good at, then you're going to struggle quite quite a bit. Like imagine if I wanted to be because I'm very passionate and I want to be the best singer out there and I cannot hold a tune for the life of me. Well, even though I might be the thing that I love the most because it's not the thing that I'm the best at, then it's not really going to be like easy to fit into that particular decision. In terms of 3D, maybe you really really really like to do characters, but you cannot for the life of you sculpt like proper anatomy. Well, that's fine. Maybe you're really good at hard surface modeling and you can be an amazing prop artist. You can keep doing artists or sorry, you can keep doing characters on the side, but if you specialize on doing what you're the best at, then that's going to open up more doors for you. Yes, passion is important, but proficiency is also very, very important for your career. So, make sure you pick the thing that you're really good at. You're going to see once you start learning all of the different things about 3D, you're going to see certain things that you're like naturally good at. Try to pursue those things. For me, one of the example that I can give you, I'm really good at teaching. like I consider myself to be a really proficient artist, but I'm really really good as a teacher. So that's why I pursued teaching as part of my career as a 3D artist because that's what I sort of like excel at, right? So it's very very important that you try to find the things that you're good at. Yes, things that you like and the things that you enjoy are important, but also the things that you're good at. Don't forget that. Again, it's important. [laughter] It says if you're passionate about something, you're not good at it. You have to spend enough time doing that thing and can't be that passionate about it. No, no. And the thing is, you can be very passionate about something, like you can spend years and years and years and a lot of time and effort and and money and whatever trying to be really really freaking good at something and still not be as good as you might want, right? That's not bad that or that's not wrong. It's just life. That's how it is. So, if that happens to you, one of the things that you need to to be very mindful of is like, hey, well, this is not for me, like this particular part of the process, right? because it would be like I've never met someone in in my 3D career that's bad at every single part of the 3D process. Like no, there's someone that's really good like maybe at drawing or at concept art or maybe like at animation or maybe at rigging or he's like a very good technical artist. Hey, if that's what you're really good at, that's what you should be pursuing because that's going to again open up more doors for you. It's going to give you um a salary, right? Like an income that's going to allow you to keep pursuing the other parts of the process that you really like. So, so yeah, don't don't be afraid of just like picking the thing that you're really good. I think as artists, we always feel like we're not good enough. Oh, yeah. That that's that's another thing. I disagree. Passion will accelerate your learning process beyond whatever you think you're good at at the moment. Yes. Yes. No. Again, like passion is very important. I've mentioned this before. There's this concept uh that that we shared called um uh eeky guy, which is yes, find what you're passionate about. For instance, I'm passionate about 3D, right? Like that's my passion and then I'm really good at teaching. So, if I can mix both of those things, I get like a really like cool sort of like a successful thing. But there's people that are really passionate at something and and they just don't have the necessary qualifications to be able to do that. Like I'm I'm for instance, I'm very passionate with chess. I really like that. I mentioned this before. I really enjoy playing chess, but I know that I don't have what I need to, for instance, become a GM. It's not going to happen. even if I tried like super super hard for the next couple of years and I'm super passionate like it it's just not going to happen because there's other factors involved into getting a specific type of result. So, so we just got to be very very mindful about that. Doesn't mean that you cannot again like uh like pursue a passion and get like relatively far into that like specific field. I'm just saying that we got to be [music] a little bit more understanding that passion is not necessarily the only thing that should fuel what we're doing. Abe, did you hear anything about NXA Studios? I'm currently working in one of them. NXA? No, my friend. I I'm not familiar with uh with their work. What are you doing there? That's that's great, by the way. But but what do they do? Do you do games or do you do like publishing advertisement? I don't know what I'm good at. I feel like I'm good at everything. [laughter] Okay, that's a that's a little bit of a of a of a like a humble brag right there. Uh Iron Man Civil War. Uh how old are you? Because that that's something that usually not going to say it all the time, but usually younger people tend to uh tend to feel it's like, "Oh, I'm just good at everything." The moment you realize, have you heard of the Dunning Krueger effect? It's It's very common. It It's very common. You can press F to adjust. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know. It's just I'm not used to the to all of the shortcuts because I'm I don't sculpt very often here. But yeah, actually, that one's a good shortcut to know. There you go. [music] Incorporating a new sugar gun. See, now we learn. Now we learn one more thing. It's funny because when I did the Blender course like a couple of years ago, the lava course, like I was like like flying with all of the shortcuts, but h I haven't used Blender heavily for the past like literally like a couple of years. So So that's why I I I forget. You don't use something, you forget it. Again, very very sort of like common in in 3D quite a bit. Unfortunately, the key is to feel you suck. Yeah. No, it's a very good re realization to be honest. Like I I personally feel even after doing 3D for for for 15 years, almost 15 years, I still feel like I don't know so many things. Like I'm I'm a noob and I'm I'm a sucker at like a lot of like things, right? So it's important that you that you are like it's important to always keep that sort of like humble attitude of like yeah there's there's more stuff to learn and you can learn stuff from from so many people right like it's not like um like that that's another important thing like you you need to understand that that there's so much information out there and and so many talented people that that you can learn a lot of stuff from them. I don't really care about the inside. I I don't think we're going to do the inside of the helmet. That would be like way too much geometry. Oh, actually we might need to do it. And the reason why we might need to do the inside is because there are a couple of angles where we might actually see a little bit of the inside. So we do need to clean it up then just a little bit. Trying to be careful with this like thin area, thin element. Now imposter syndrome is is very common. There's a very cool thing about imposter syndrome. Imposter syndrome gets the most difficult to handle when you start lying to yourself. Like if you're really honest to yourself and you are very again clear to who you are and what you are, then you're not going to suffer from imposter syndrome as much because you know who you are and where you are. So, the moment you start pretending to be someone you're not or trying to sort of like um yeah, like uh like sell yourself or or say things about yourself that are not true, that's when you're still feeling like, oh, maybe I'm I'm an imposter. But if you're like just very self-conscious and very honest about it, and you're like, yeah, this is who I am. This is what I know. This is what I can do. That imposter syndrome goes away. It literally goes away. Hello from India, my friend. Will you Yes, of course. like this would be eventually uh RTOP for um for like a game for like more of a game production. There we go. I think I think we're in a good position here. I'm just going to soften it like a couple of things, but I I like the the general sort of like level of detail that we have. So, now we need to jump onto the other one, of course. So, this one we're going to control R. And then let's make this a little bit smaller. Ctrl R again. Oh, that's way too small. Let's do uh like 0 2 0.1. There we go. Now, an important thing here is we do need to create a little bit of an overlap. I can see a little bit of an overlap on the element. I'm going to grab my grab brush again. And that overlap is going to help with two things. It's going to make the rettopology process easier. And it's going to give me like a very nice looking like ambient occlusion bake later on. So that way we don't need to rettopize this as two separate pieces. We can just do one piece here. This is very important. See how I'm I'm pushing the the back section a little bit further in. That's because I want to have a a little bit of a like a cast shadow or something there. What are your thoughts on making 3D printing models in May or Blender? I had to do it's fine. Um I would definitely use Blender more than Maya for 3D printed models because we have sculpting here in instead of Blender and the sculpting in Maya is like the worst thing that you could ever like try. Just like so freaking bad. So, but it's fine. Yeah. Like I I I don't mind. I think it's a it's a good idea. It's a good thing that you can do. Details are good, but wouldn't those carvings look better if they were asymmetrical? Yes, we're going to add a little bit more asymmet as asymmetry uh in a little bit. Here's a very interesting thing about symmetry. When you're working with symmetry, certain elements or or the closer you are to the center line of your object, the more obvious the the symmetry looks, right? So, all of these ones right here, you're never going to see this one, this one, and the other side at the same time. It's it's impossible pretty much to see them at the same time. Uh this one on the on the front I do I do agree. So for instance here what I would do probably is uh let's go back to this sculpting one right here. Turn off symmetry and then with my clay buildup here just uh like rebuild this thing a little bit better. Right. So let's just rebuild it right there or have a slightly different one. Right. And that way when you see it from the front they look slightly different. I would definitely probably like smooth this one out a little bit more. And yeah, at this point if you want you can like start adding a little bit of asymmetry. Right. For instance, we can like hit it a little bit more on that side right there. Fill it in a little bit more over here. Again, the closer we are to the center line, the more asymmetry we want to have. That's a it's a very good advice I can give you here. So, we can add a little bit of this information here. And again, since we're closer to the center line, going to be a little bit more more obvious to to keep. Toby says, "I've been doing 3D for over 3 years and I still don't know anything about animation and only basic rigging, but it's okay." Yeah, it's okay. It's okay. It's I I always use uh doctors as um as a reference like when you're learning medicine, right? or when you're studying medicine, you learn the basics of all of the like uh branches while you're studying and then you specialize on one of them, right? So even though every single doctor out there knows the basic like anatomy and and functions of of the human body and in all its parts, they they specialize on one specific way to to deal with it. And if they can't figure it out, they'll send you to the specialist that's going to be able to help you. So So the same thing happens for 3D. Like I don't expect someone who's a modeler to be able to animate and rig and do BFX and do compositing and do like concept art and design. Like no no like you that that's a lot of like different works. You can learn all of those things. I I personally like to learn a lot of the the pipelines just to incorporate them into my like portfolio and stuff. Um but usually on a on a job you're not going to be doing all of those stuff. It's just not that that's not the way it works. Okay, let me turn this off for just a second. I feel many schools like to push animation a lot in game arts majors be because there's a lot of work in animation to be honest. Like if you like animation, animation it's a it's a it's a great like it's it's it's competitive as with everything like unfortunately everything in our fields is is competitive all the time. But animation requires so much work that there's there's a lot of work about it or around it. So, and and a lot of people when they think about 3D, right, like movies and games, animation is one of the first things that they like uh think about. It's like a very common um like part of the process, right? We we think like you you tell your your parents, right, or your uncles or your your older friends is like, "Oh, I'm learning 3D." And they're going to think about animation. Like that's that's what they immediately think. I don't know that there's so many other like things uh around animation like uh again like rigging like a BFX like motion graphics like uh simulations or physics or things like that. They they just just think about like animation because that that's what they see. How can you accomplish really sharp edges in sculpt? One of the ways to do it is of course you need more resolution. So for instance here I'm going to go a little bit lower in resolution to get like a sharper edges. So I'm going to get more geometry 4 million points right there. And then this ones right here, the trim brushes. These are really good to to really sharpen things up. I really like this one right here. It's the what's it called? It's called the flatten contrast. So if you make your brush really really small, you can push it and you can get like really sharp edge. See that right there? So that's the way to do it. I don't worry too much about like this chewed edges that we're getting right now because I feel like they look nice to be honest and and they're going to bake quite nice as well on the on the final result. Now I'm going to go here with my clay buildup and just going to start adding a little bit of like form and texture variation. This is one of the things that you want to do pretty much all the time with skin, leather, like just adding a little bit of noise variation in general. It's a good way to to make your surfaces look a lot more complex. See, Cyber Mall, just for FYI, I'm pretty sure Alt Q can be used to swap the active skull mesh. Alt Q. No, that's not it, man. Were you trying to Oh, no. That was control Q. Alt Q. No, it doesn't seem to be doing anything. Yeah, this is Blender 5, guys. And yeah, like this is one of the things that I'm genuinely surprised by. Like the fact that we can work with higher level like subdivisions now. Like this is 5 million points on one tool and then have like another millions on the other. Yeah, I pressed control Q, but uh even and then the other one it's not doing what I expected it to do, smaller going to damage this thing right here. How how long until the next winner? Have three more winners to go, right? Three or two or more winners or that we're giving away some credits for 3DSK. It's an amazing site. They have their Black Friday sale right now. It's a great site for reference. Two minutes. Two more minutes. Whenever I say I do 3D, people think it's about 3D printers. Yeah. Yeah. That is another common um nowadays, right? Especially nowadays where where 3D printing has become so prevalent. A lot of people might might think about that. I went so deep into Cersion sculpting that I created a high poly realistic version to sell it. But when I had to start another project from scratch, I got bored by switch to Roblox models. Hey, whatever sells, man. If you can get like I know there's people that are getting like really good money with like Roblox stuff. I've never really gotten into it to be honest, but I know that um that it's something out there. There we go. Really want to land this thing right here. Do we have any other brushes for flattening? Scale multiplane. Oh, that one. That one's working. The trim. Yeah, I'm trying to find the trim. Which is the trim? Trim. I I don't like the feel like it's a little bit strong though. I mean, it's giving us a nice sort of like hammered effect, so not bad. I'm sure if anyone's asked, but have you given Nomad's sculpt a pig now that they I have not tried the the PC version? No, no one's asked yet. Haven't tried the the PC version. I have it on my iPad. I like it, but I I have Zbrush on the iPad now as well. So, I use that one a little bit more. Um, but yeah, I've I've I've seen it. I've seen it. Oh, you know what? We're going to have to use like a boolean there. This is the kind of stuff that I would definitely do in CBrush to be honest. Okay, control S. Should we jump into Zbrush now? Um, let's see. I was hoping to get your opinion on which software for rendering because Blender and Unreal I feel Unreal works better for me because of all of the effects. Um it depends on what type of render. If you want to do real-time render then yes Unreal definitely but um but if you want to do some other stuff then I would try something something else. Um yeah like Blender with cycles is is really good. And we have the third winner. The third winner is our good friend Negati Negati. Congratulations, my friend, on winnering the um the the third giveaway for today. Uh we still have two more giveaways to go. Make sure you guys jump into the Discord and go to the little events tab so you get a chance to win 350 credits from our friends at 3DSK. There we go. Oh, Lim Blender. Yeah, let's do all blender. Okay, let's let's start modeling. We need to model one more piece. We need to model that thing right there. The little hanging bit. That's an easy one. Let's go back to layout here. Let's go back to our front view. And I'm going to start with a um cube. Cube to the center. Right around there. Let's turn on grid here to snap it to the center of the grid. There we go. Go to Warframe mode. vertex. I'm going to grab this vertex right here and push this guys up. I want to buy your hand painted pirate course, but I don't have cush. Is it doable in Blender scope? Yes, totally. You can totally do it inside of um inside of uh Blender. What do you think about the new Substance Painter update? It's really cool. I mean, it's the ribbons, right? Like they added the ribbons which are a sort of like an upgrade on the path tool. Looks very nice. I I I think they're going to be quite handy to be honest. Uh, that's the big thing that I saw. Let's see. Now, we're going to go and add a couple of lines right here. One right there. One right there. Right there. One right there. One right there. One right there. One on the one side. And one on the other side. And the one want them to be I think we want them to be as Okay. scale on Y. Go. Seems about right. G on the Y. Let's push this forward. Right around there. And now we're going to grab this face, this face, and this face. This face, this face, and this face. Oh, this face and this face. And delete those faces. Go to solid. Grab those guys right there. And fill. No, not feel. Uh, or just grab feel. I know we can bridge, but this is one thing that I really like the the F like key inside of Blender. Like being able to feel the things like just quickly. It's really handy. Maya has a new like smart extrude option that's very nice as well. But I really like this one. Yeah, there we go. Something like that. Okay, now I'm going to apply all transforms because what I want to do now is I'm going to grab all the edges and then bevel them with of course two segments so we get a sort of like a smoother more u subdivided mesh. And then this is relatively easy because since we're we're going to dyname mesh all of this of course. So, I'm going to just create a cylinder. Move the cylinder here, rotate it, scale it on X, and then move it on Y. So, it should match what we have right there. That's about it. I think this one might be a little bit thicker, though. Actually, we have the side view. Why Why guesstimate if we have the the actual side view. There we go. So, let's scale this to the proper size. There we go. This one has a little bit of curvature. Interesting. So, let's add some lines here. One, two. Yeah, those should be enough. This one. So, we're going to push up there, there, there. Careful with those cuz those those are going to sort of like distort a little bit. Again, I kind of like the imperfections that we might be able to get, but we want we don't want to make them like super extreme, though. The helmet looks like one of the helmets from it's uh Yeah, because this is a an actual like uh like real world uh like helmet thing. We're going to go there. There. Let's add one more sloop here. Let's push them to give a little bit roundness. There we go. Yeah, that looks great. Now, this thing right here, we're just going to scale this on X a little bit. Push it out. Okay, I'm going to bevel the edges a little bit. And of course, we're going to mirror this thing across the X-axis. Let's grab like the object. There we go. Let's apply this. Grab both of these things. Ctrl J to join them. Then we go into sculpting mode. Let's turn this off for just a second. And we're going to remsh. Oh, we're definitely going to have to go really low on this one. Let's try 07. Oh, maybe a lot less than that. Let's try 0 one. There we go. So, almost half a million polygons, but this is great. Now since this thing is very close to the center line, I'm definitely going to keep it without symmetry. Let's see what is the workflow. Are you modeling then making a high quality sculpting version? Yes, exactly. I'm doing the high poly version of this thing and eventually we're going to do a rettopology and we're going to um like texture this. Of course, I'm not going to be able to do that today. They want to focus on the on the high poly creation. But yeah, that's the pretty much the workflow that we're following here. Smooth all of those like pinches that we got from the from the bevel. And yes, someone mentioned proportional editing. I agree that could be another option there. Let's adding some like dense. What is what proportional editing? You know what proportional editing is, Mango? You took the course. Proportional editing is one of the options that we have right here. It's like soft selection. It's like soft selection inside of Maya. So here the main thing that we want to get rid of are all of the so like um weird pinches that we might have gotten and of course all of that banding like the polygonal looking like things there. I want to try the boolean feature here inside of Blender, but I'm a little bit scared that it's going to break my uh my mesh. It's like anything you know what it was, but I know that. Yeah. Yeah. Soft selection. Yeah, that's it. Like you guys want me to give me a a tip to learn like the other software? Like let's say you're a Maya user and you want to learn Blender or you're a Blender user and you want to learn like Maya. Best thing you can do is on your second monitor. Hopefully you have a second monitor. I strongly recommend that you get one because it's very handy. But if you have a second monitor, just have chat GPT on the other window and be like in Maya I have soft selection. I want to know what the tool is instead of Blender. And it's going to tell you, oh, like there's no exact tool, but you can use it like this, like that, whatever. So, so I normally when I'm trying to to learn another software, I I just say in Maya, I do this. How can I do this other thing? And it's going to give you like really good answers. Like that's one use where where AI, I think, really helps us cuz cuz you can really focus on on learning the tools because you already know the tools, right? like it's it's like um it's like oh I already know what an extrude is. I don't need to to learn how extrusion works cuz I already know how it works but I just want to know how the hell can I find that inside of um inside of uh Blender or inside of uh Houdini or inside of like this other software or this and that. So it's uh it's important to it's a really good way to to find that information quickly. Second monitor is a must. Yes. Yes, it's definitely a must. Yeah. Like yesterday I was trying to do some stuff in 3D code and and I I wanted to do something similar to what I know how to do inside of Photoshop and I was doing this like hey in Photoshop I do this. I want to find a way to do this in 3D code. It's like oh yeah you can try this or or you can try that. Uh try to use this tool right here. It's a really good way to to learn. It's a really good way to learn like to be honest like Chad GPT really really good. I I don't like AI generating stuff for for a lot of other stuff right like images and videos. They look like Did you guys see the Coca-Cola video? Absolute nightmare stuff. [laughter] But uh but that kind of other things like in like learning elements, I think it's a good a good use of AI. I'm going to use like a welding point here. Secret is making this look as as organic and as as uh like like someone actually built this thing, right, in their in their workshop or whatever. Hi, I saw that for Indiana Jones they use modto modo. They just discontinued it. I do not recommend it. I think they just discontinued it. [music] Like I'm not sure if the if the what's the word? I'm not sure if if uh the studio has a lot of like artists that are using it, but I I I heard that the foundry just discontinued it. So, so I I no I would not recommend learning modo. Like I'm sure you can still use it, but I I don't think they're going to be adding any more like tools or or elements to it. So, because of that, I I would not recommend Just be careful with GPT's answer. They might be other Yeah. No, they're definitely like one of the things that I do when when using chat GPT and and like this software stuff is I always tell it, hey, this is the version of the software that I'm using. Like I'm using, I don't know, Blender 5.0 or or 3D code 2025.26 or whatever. Um, so that it tries to find the right information. But yeah, it can be outdated. Even if it it fits wrong, it it usually will at least guide you through the or or get you close to the area where you might be looking for something specific. Watch me around the blender like this makes me want to do a full hard surface model there like before. Yeah, it's it's a good it's a great software. Like I I I really like I don't know why people have this like very weird conception that us artists that use a lot of other softwares like Maya or or Blender that we're against the or sorry Maya or Z we're against Blender. No. Not at all. I I really like the software. I recommend it all the time. I have a course about using like the basic stuff for Blender. For those of you that haven't seen it, it's it's this one right here. It's the Axe course, right? So, in this one, we go over like basic poly modeling, sculpting, UVs, texturing, and um and and people really like that that course. So, I like Blender. I don't have anything against it. I do am a little bit against the the community cuz the community sometimes can be a little bit too fanboyish. I think it's it's the right way to say it. Like they they try to defend Blender as if it's the only option and and every other corporation is like evil and every other software is evil and no I don't think so. Yeah, I don't think that's the the right approach to be honest. But Blender is an amazing software. What would GPT give you a feedback? No, no, no, no. You cannot ask Chad GPT4. Like if you if you upload a picture to Chad GPT and they're like, "Oh, what do you think about this image?" Like, no. Remember, Chad GPT doesn't um the Chad GPT doesn't have an opinion. It's just it just spits words. It it just like finds the the the best approximation to the answer that you're looking for. So So you should not rely on Chach's opinion at all. Hey, that that's actually like really good Spanish there, man. Like you wrote it perfectly fine. So, do you do micro details in the sculpting or texturing? Um, usually texturing like here, like the scratch and all that kind of stuff. Unless I'm doing something like for 3D print or something like that, I I don't think it's really worth it. Okay. So, let's put this thing to a test. Uh oh, nice. Okay. Yeah, let let's try this cuz in in the in Sebrush, this thing frequently crashes. So, let's see how how this guy handles it. So, I want to do a box trim here. Damn, not freaking bad. Blender, you win a point today for me. That's freaking great. Look at that, guys. Nice. Nice. Nice. That's a box trim, right? It's a boolean operation. There we go. That's what we want. That's all we want right there. That's perfect. Yeah. Nice. Now, we just need to clean that edge. But yeah, Blender Blender gets a point for me today because of that. Because ZBrush tends to tends to struggle with that quite a bit every now and then. Not always, but every now and [music] then. Okay. Now, of course, we need to control R, right, to remsh? Yes. Uh I don't like the other material. Why Why do we have multiple materials? I guess it's like poly groupoups or something, right? That's fine. But yeah, that's nice. That's really nice. And of course, because this is very close to the center line of the element, we we don't want to have uh symmetry there. See with with crush? Yeah. Do you think AI will replace artists in the future? Dude, here's the thing. Here's the thing, guys. I know that we're very scared or I know that we're very scared about AI taking our jobs in the future. I don't think it is. And we've been very paranoid ever since AI started like three or four years ago. It won't replace artists, but it will change the pipeline. Like I've I've seen some artists and some artists that I really respect using or incorporating like AI heavily in their workflows. It's not going to replace artists because your expertise, your knowledge about what looks good, what is good, what works, what doesn't work, that stuff you you still need that input in the machine of this AI stuff. Will it change the way we use art in the entertainment industry or in production pipelines? Yes. But you can still do art traditionally the same way we've been doing it for like 30 years now. So if you still want to do things very like again manually organically like very artistic heavy like input that's fine. Just keep in mind that in production pipeline in big studios they're going to be using AI more and more and you need to use it as a tool. You need to use it in in ways to help you in your process. But I don't think it's going to be replacing like it's going to change the work landscape, but it's not going to replace the artistic side of things. And it's not even going to replace all of the expertise that you need as an artist. Like that that's a very very important thing. Thank you. Do we got a a follow? Yeah, Ryu, thank you for the follow, my friend. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. As a as a tool, it's fine. and and we're going to use it more and more and and it's fine to use it as a tool, but you still need to know like things about optimization, things about topology, things about proper UVs, things about um like just design principles, right? Like what is a good design? What is a bad design? Like why is a Coca-Cola commercial so bad? Like why do we not like it? Because the design just sucks pretty much, right? Cuz in terms of rendering, in terms of light, in terms of quality, the quality looks fine, but the designs suck. So, so that's the part where artists are going to really go and uh and be the difference in in big projects in big productions. The fact that we're going to be um like utilizing AI, but we need to sort like polish AI and um and uh curate AI, like figure out which things works, which things work and which things don't work. Okay, let's add uh what next detail do we add? Oh, we need another little like cylinder thing going down there. So, let's do that real quick. I I'm really enjoying the workflow to be honest guys. Like look at this. Like it's what like 1 hour. We've been working on this for 1 hour and this is already looking quite quite nice. And we're going to look at some like rendering stuff because they did improve the rendering um as part of the whole thing as well. Let me just bring this thing up a little bit. There we go. And let's get let's get the there's like a like a hand or like a like a cylinder here again. Like I'm not going to dump a Maya. This is not bad at all. No, no, no, no. Uh here's the thing. Uh, I I I know there were a lot of concept artists out there, but most of the stuff that I seen AI do concept art related, it's so cliche. It's so unoriginal. It's so like I don't know. Like I I don't like it. Like it looks cool. And I think YMO Toro said something like this. They're very cool wallpapers like wallpaper generators. Like you're going to get some really interesting wallpapers from it, but they're nothing like interesting. It's nothing like I have not seen any like design that is like, "Oh, this is freaking awesome." However, I have seen and and actually we figured this out a little bit later than we would have wanted to, but um there are some artists that are using AI as a as a starting point and then they polish those designs a little bit more. That's fine. I don't mind that. If you use AI, find something, you know, like how many generic knights do we need to do for medieval games, right? Like a lot of them. So if you get like a generic knight from AI and then as a concept artist you take that and you modify, you clean up the design, you improvise, you use your knowledge and your skills to to take what the AI gives you and elevate it into a more original and more interesting level. That's fine. I mean people have been doing that for a lot of time with like photo bashing, right? Like I remember when photo bashing was um what's the word? When photo bashing was starting like a lot of people thought that um it was cheating. like, "Oh, no. You're cheating because you're not actually like doing or painting or doing anything. You're just grabbing like images and things like that and and and getting them like mashed together." Yes, but you mash them together and then you clean them out. You polish and then you you give something or you create something cool, right? So So even though it might seem like cheating, it's it's not cheating. It's just being efficient with the with the process. Neo says, "Will gifts be given after life?" Yes, after the the live stream, I'll reach out to the to the winners and I'll give you guys the code so that you can win. And congratulations, Mustafa. Mustafa, you're here. I'm pretty sure you're here. I've seen you before. I think this is the first time you win, man. That's great. Congratulations, Mustafa Amed for the 350 credits uh for 3dsk. I hope they help you a lot in your um in your journey here. Make this a little bit smaller. Control R. Actually, we forgot to This is very important. Make sure that you always always always always apply transforms when you scale things because otherwise you can see that see how the remsh is giving me like stretch faces. That's because I did not apply transforms before. So now I need to to apply transforms here and remsh. There we go. Now we're going to get clean uh clean geometry. So congratulations Mustafa. And we're going to have a couple more um a couple more ones. When do you recommend use the multi-res modifier? If you have really clean topology, like for instance, if you have like uh like a base mesh, like the ones that they that they give away on the Blender Foundation, like uh if you if you have some of those base meshes and um and you want to keep the topology, then multi-res works better. But you need to have like really clean, really even topology in order to to make good use of the multi-res uh element. Since I'm going to be doing again like rettopology for this thing, I I prefer to do it this way. Like I'm just using multi-rest like modifiers here. Let's clean that line up there. I'm guessing I have the exact same line the other side. There we go. That's it. The little bit of an extra detail right there. And this is one of the things that I mentioned on portfolio review quite a bit. You guys need to make sure that when we're doing this kind of stuff, you always do this in multiple pieces, right? Like I'm not trying to model or sculpt everything from a single piece. That would just be pretty much impossible. So So make sure you you try to do things in separate pieces the way they would normally or or traditionally be built because um otherwise your your objects are not going to look as as realistic, right? My workflow is box modeling, base mesh, then multra sculpting. Yes. Yes, that that works. Any recommendations to clean up jagged edges from remshing when sculpting in Blender? Yes, the polish uh brushes over here. Again, I'm keeping a lot of the of the jaggedy edges because I feel like they look nice with the the kind of stuff that we're doing here with the helmet. But if you want to clean them up, then um then yeah, the the polish brushes are are what you want to go for. Okay. Let's add uh Oh, we have actually we have a couple of like holes here. You see those right there on this side? Those are pretty nice. Let's sculpt them real quick. That's like a like a nice little detail, right? Eventually, we're going to paint those black or something. Now, let's add some of the bolts. We have a a lot of bolts right here. So, so let's start adding some of those bolts to this part. What part of of or culture of history is this helmet? That's a great question. So, this helmet is an Italian jousting helmet from circa 9 uh 1475 to 1500. Um, so yeah, this is Italian. I'm getting this image from the Met Museum. Let's see. If you try to give a job for games, should I render in real or will Marmmerited be enough? Marmicet is enough. Like you most of my my renders on my portfolio, they're on Marmicet. Like for instance, with this one that we finished last week, I have the the Marmic render view. I I mean this is a little bit different because this is hand painted stuff, but even like traditional stuff, you can you can do it with um with uh with Marmicet. So for instance, um Oh, this one this one's so old. Look at that. Nine years ago. So this one has the marmmaicet one. This is such a like I really loved when I did this model. Nowadays I look at it like oh my god so many mistakes here on this one. This was for a game that's going to be like a top down game and you would see multiple of this units and it was like super low poly as well. So we had to optimize like it's it's 5,874 triangles for the whole character here and it had to have like proper animation topology and everything. It was it was quite a challenge, but I was happy with this. Like the albido map doesn't look that bad. I think that was a good result. Yeah, this was 9 years ago. Okay, so let's add some of those like bolts. And this is a very common thing, right? Like right now a lot of people those bolts would just like sculpt them like they would just like add them like this. And if you do that, the edge that you get there is really really bad. like it it just looks very very bad. So, best thing you can do is just um just add the sphere and use the sphere. So, I'm going to add like a UV sphere there. Of course, I'm going to flatten this. So, scale on the Y. Make it like a like a little thing right there. And then just rotate this. just rotate it so that it follows uh the curvature of the helmet a little bit better. I think this a little bit big. So, I'm going to make it a little bit smaller. And this is going to be um this is going to be it's going to give me a way way better result in terms of bakes, right? Like when we bake this, this is going to look just so much better than if I just like uh sculpted or masked that out from 9 years ago. It's good already. It looked like for Nah, no, no, it's not. It was It's like we we are always again always learning, always improving, right? That's our that's our moto here on the channel. So, let's do a mirror for this. Well, let's of course apply transforms. Um, control A. Apply all transforms. And we're going to do a mirror. There we go. Let's apply this. And then I need to actually before I apply the mirror, going to duplicate this. And this one's going to be my There's a There's one right there. very very thin. But there's one right there in the middle. Set origine to center of mass volume. There we go. There we go. And it's fine. Again, having this little bit of asymmetry on the high poly is great because the bakes are going to just look so so nice. Let's apply transforms. And now we jump into sculpting. So that's right there. I'm going to control R. Of course, we need to change this to like 0 one. There we go. smooth that out. That one's really really flat against the the surface. So, I'm going to use my my M brush really [music] push it there. So, again, as I was mentioning, you don't want to just like sculpt it from the main mesh. You want to do this kind of like construction similar to what we would expect to have on the real world. Now I'm going to use my trim brush. And what I want to do is I want to give it like little hits here and there. Let me use something a little bit more aggressive like this one. There we go. And see how that's going to give me like a like a hammer metal effect. So it looked like this thing was pushed into the into the metal, right? Like a rivet. As yuk paint blender. No, I have not tried yuk paint. I I've seen some good stuff about it, but I have not tried it yet myself. Not yet. I I'm just like a sucker for for substance painter to be honest. See how organic that looks now? And of course, ideally, we will what we want to do here is go to the to the main cylinder and maybe maybe add just a little bit of something. Not too much, right? But just maybe a little bit of a depression or something to indicate that this thing is actually like pushing or moving. Like this is not leather, so I would not expect it to look like a like a button, but it should be something that works. Cloudy, thanks for the donation, man. says, "Hey Abe, are you going to retapize in Blender?" I don't think so. I think I'm I'm not going to do this during the stream, by the way. I'm going to finish this uh off camera uh this project and and I'm probably going to be doing the RTO instead of topog to be honest. Go. Now, we go to this guys right here. Remesh 0001. Enter. Remsh. Is there a reason you do not shade smooth? Uh because I'm just going to like uh like destroy everything here with sculpting. No. Come on, Blender. You've done such a good job. You can do this. Oh, wait a second. Did I I do 43 40? The hell? Maybe 0001 is too much. Much better. I think I was in the wrong sub tool, right? Yeah. No, it's saved. It's saved. Okay, let's save. There we go. Let's remsh. And I want to do 01. It's this one. All right. See, for these guys right here, we can do 0001. The helmet was the one that we couldn't do that high. Go. There we go. And we're going to use Oh, no. Oh, wait a second. Oh, we have this thing. Let's apply going to give it a little bit of again like variation and roughness to the whole thing. It's high and low poly together on Blender or only right now it's only the high poly like we're only seeing the high poly but eventually we will have both elements uh together. Is that realistic or stylized? I'm trying to go for more realistic style. So, I would say right now this is this is looking way more realistic than what I usually do. I'm adding a couple of extra details here and there. Those are like personal preferences of mine. Uh but we're trying to keep this like quite like the shading and the texturing is going to be quite realistic once we do that. Now, this is where again we we need to work smart, right? Not hard. So, we already have uh a couple of like bolts right here, and we need to repeat them a couple times across the the whole section. We don't need to do this so many times. Uh let's see. I don't like how Blender modifiers have an option to duplicate right under apply. Three subdivisions duplicated. Almost crashed my file. Yeah, that can happen. As a Maya user, I made Blender and recently has insane. No, the thing is Mustafa the Rtopo that you saw, it was probably Rtopaflow 4 and that's a plugin and that's one of the things that I've mentioned and I got criticized quite a bit for saying this, but it's the truth. Yes, Blender is very powerful, but there's a lot of plugins that make it very powerful. So, if you're not using those plugins, then some parts of the software do feel a little bit more limited. So, for instance, the rettopology stuff, Maya with the Quadra is is way better in rettopology than Blender by default. But if you afford or if you buy your your rtop flow or some of the other tools then yes like the rettopo your topology tools here instead of uh instead of blender get really really good even better than Maya. But but that that's the thing like sometimes people get a little bit uh um dishonest with uh with the fact that oh blender like vanilla blender can do everything better than Maya. Not necessarily. There are certain things that are it's really good at but there are other things that that it could definitely um um improve. Right. So, let's just let's just play fair. I would say, there. Okay. So, what I want to do now is I'm going to go back to layout. I want to check some render stuff. We're going to do some like quick renders in just a second. Going to grab these guys right here and I'm going to duplicate them. And then I'm going to go into face mode. I know there's like super like big faces, but I can do just linked. Right click and separate selection. There we go. Then I'm going to go to mesh or sorry uh let's go object and trans or set origin. Oh, to center of mass. There we go. So this is what I was mentioning like work smart not hard. So, if we already have one of this guys right here, it's a good idea to just get it into position and reuse that bolt. It's such a small bolt. No one's going to no one's going to care, right? So, we just can't reuse this. I think this detail that I added, it's too far back. I made a mistake with this one. I need to push this like to around there. Then we just duplicate this for instance. Rotate it so we see a little bit of a different face. And then we can bring one of the other ones that we just And remember all of these guys are going to be baked down. So it's probably going to be like really flat once we do the the actual high poly. That's why I don't mind about this. Can objects set at origin center of mass. How many we have? We have four actually like further back. I know we can use the the snap to surface option. And I I I sometimes prefer to do things manually to get a little bit more control. Let's see. Will you bake the non? Yeah, the the the vehicle. Yeah. Yeah, I know. I can use faces snapping. I know. I know. Sometimes I like to to do it the hard way because for instance I I I don't want all of them to be like like some of like that one like that line right there that looks interesting and if I I know that if I use the the face is snapping it's always going to snap to like the center of the element and sometimes I might want like other parts of the of the little thing to to Oh, but it's so cool. Like I I remember and well, first of all, guys, I want to thank you. [music] I know I don't thank you enough. Thank you for for being here. Thank you for being here on the stream. Thank you for being part of this amazing community. Thank you for making a lot of 3D stuff and inspire everyone. Look at that. There we go. Looks nice. Hopefully with the with the content that we're creating here on the channel, you guys are are enjoying it. Thank you, Akalon. Thank you. Modeling by the other hand, I feel is more intuitive. Yeah, animation is very good in Maya. Definitely. I can already see an AI retop tool someday. I can There was one guy that was uh promoting it. We already have it. Here's the thing with AI RTO. I don't know why people are asking and I'm going to go full camera here. I'm not exactly sure why people are asking for an AI rtop tool when we already have like that kind of stuff with decimation master. We already have that kind of stuff with Siri measure. We already have that kind of stuff with Mayas all the rettopology tools. So if you just want to get like even clean quad like elements across the whole thing, it's already there. We have the option to do that already. Now for more like low poly elements where you need to be very precise, I don't think AI is ever going to get there. That's why it's important to know about rettopology. That's why it's important to to optimize things because we will still need to to figure out if the rettopology that we're getting from whatever machine we're using gets us the result that we want. Let's see. You give really good advice. I appreciate that. Uh out of the three artists I follow, you've been the best help for me getting my degree. Thank you, my friend. Thank you. The baking tools of Topagon are enough to replace the need of Senator. Now, I I love Topagon. We've collaborated with them, but I've mentioned this before. I don't think the baking tools inside of Topagon are the best. They're really good. They're going to get you, you know, nice result here and there. Uh, but I do think they're not the best. I do think that they can be improved even like, um, but I don't think it's needed because for RTO, not for baking. You're going to be doing the bakes inside of Marmmaet if inside of um, uh, what's the word? Inside of um, uh, Substance Banger, right? Oh, yeah. They want to do it with a prompt, but it's not going to be possible, man. Like, uh, again, like on on some of these ones right here, uh, like this one, we finished doing it last week. Like the topology that I needed for this was so specific for certain areas like to make sure that the that we had non-planer faces, to make sure that the silhouettes captured properly, to make sure that we were optimizing as much as possible. It's not it's not easy even for this one right here, right? like there are some areas where where the rettopology needs to be very very very very precise to get the the best kind of result and uh and this is not something that an AI can figure out because every single model is going to be different so you cannot apply like a what's the word you cannot apply the the whole thing in just one second uh full pipeline in one life no not full pipeline but we're we're moving quite far ahead I I would say like we're we're getting like um like a good amount of um of parts done for this thing right here. Now we need to add um I'm pretty sure this thing right here is where the plumes go, right? Would you guys agree? Like this things right here looks like where this is where the like the little feathers would go in the injing helmets. Um so we need to add that. And then this are like more like spheres, right? like this. This definitely feel bigger. So, I'm going to add those real quick. [clears throat] Let's do now. Let's do point on surface face project. Shift a mesh sphere. So it's right around there. So here now I'm using face project. face project is just a way to make sure that these things are like attached to the actual element. These things will definitely need to be like rettopized on their own probably because they're changing the silhouette white way too much. We're going to have to see how how that's going to work later. Let's duplicate that. We have another one right here. Rio says, "Hey, is it cheating if I use AI for the initial sculpture but handle all the low poly GBs, baking, texturing, and rendering myself?" I don't think it is AI like cheating. It's kind of like using a base mesh. So, I don't think it's cheating. I'm going to be honest. I've tried some of the 3D like AI tools out there. I'm not going to mention any names because I don't want to give them any promotion. And most of the results that I've gotten are pretty shitty. Like, I end up just like doing it from scratch or doing it from something else. Laser or LSR3D. Congratulations, my friend. You are the winner of the fourth. Is that the fourth? We're missing one more, right? Or or are we done? That do one, two, three. No, that's it. That's it. That's all the fifth one. There you go. So, congratulations, my friend, Laser 3D, for winning the last giveaway for today, which was the um uh credits. 350 credits for 3DSK. Yeah, exactly. Like, like no, there's absolutely nothing wrong with um probably Warren Plumes on that. Probably a little flag or banner for the history is the day job. Oh, thank you, 3D chick. Yeah, I I think I'm going to be adding plumes just because I I like how plumes look. I know that it might not be historically accurate to do that, but it's probably going to be some plumes. Or what do you think? Like actually, give me your opinion. If we wanted to add plumes, would we instead of modeling something like that add another like uh point here on the back so that it would um you know, give me an access point for the for the plumes? Do you think that would look better from a from a historical like I know I know it's not going to be perfectly accurate, but but would that get us closer to accuracy? What do you say? Akalan says, "I'm a teacher at a vocational school and the grading system is very stupid. If I would grade them like we are told, two people would get pretty easy full points, but I'm evil and demand more." Nice. I I I do think um I do think we need to change the way education for art works. And this is definitely a very sort of like controversial opinion, but I do feel like a lot of schools and and I've worked for some of them. They're using a very like outdated uh way of of approaching like teaching art and they evaluate things in a very like nonartic way. Yeah, it's it's something it's something that um No, plumes were historically correct. I agree. But I think if we were adding plumes, we would add them here on the back, right? like on the crown of the of the character rather than on the side. On the side, it might look a little bit off. There we go. So, this one we're definitely going to mirror. And let's use the helmet as a source point. There we go. And then this one going to be right around there. And now we can control J. Actually, let's apply this first. And now we controll J. Someone was asking about shade smooth. This is where I would use shade smooth. So for all of those pieces, definitely use shade smooth. And I do want to give them a little bit of, you know, life. So let's go to sculpting. What's happening with the music? There we go. I think teachers are way too soft now because many of my classmen elephants to them, they were seniors and their skills were like someone who just started. It's not the fault of the teachers, man. Um again this is this is a fault of the education system because a lot of education has become very forprofit now. So they just care about like enrolling more students and and and them [music] paying unfortunately. And what ends up happening is that teachers are not allowed to um uh to fail students. Like I I' I've unfortunately been in a couple of institutions where that happens. They tell me no you cannot fail them. It's like dude this guy doesn't know how to model. He doesn't know how to sculpt. Like he fails. He's not going to pass. like, "No, we cannot fail them." Oh, man. What do I do at that point, right? Like, there's not much I can do. That's why I I like doing my courses because with my courses, at least I know, hey, if you take the course and you do the work, you're going to learn it. But, uh, but if you're not um if you're not really interested in it, then don't get the course. Like, don't don't waste my don't waste my time and I'm not going to waste yours. Uh, but yeah, it's unfortunate. If you do plums, are you going to sculpt or use haircuts? Hair cards. Definitely haircuts. Like, if I do plums, I definitely want to do haircuts here. Uh, let's go. Here's third 10. Let's remsh 0001 and remsh. Is that going to be too much? Shouldn't be too much. Maybe it's too much. Master uh for for traditional modeling Blender definitely. But if I have to, I'll I'll I'll do the stuff in inside of uh inside of simul. It's just the simul it's a little bit it's not as intuitive as some of the other stuff. Hopefully we don't crash here. I'm asking a little bit too much. Yeah. Yeah. The stream is lagging. I I made a mistake. I I added uh it was too too intense on the on the reming here. Oh man, I think this is going to crash. I asked too much of Blender. Well, maybe we'll we'll be proven wrong. I did save, right? I think I did save. How can I get the most out of 3DSK? Oh, I I'll show you in just a second, man. I agree that AI could be unreliable with topo. Employers that weren't fired in the data entry field had to overtime look through. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Please don't crash. I'm I'm pretty sure it's going to crash. We're asking a little bit too much. Well, while that holds or if that Let's see if that uh recovers. Let me No, it's not dying. It's not dying. Are we back? Are we back? We're back on Twitch. We're back on Twitch. Okay. Okay. We're back on Twitch. Are we back on on YouTube? Yes. Okay. Okay. We're back. We're back. At least it didn't die like uh that horribly. Uh let's see where we where we where we went because um I don't remember when was the last time we saved. We might have lost a little bit of progress. That's fine. How much progress did we lose? Okay, we lost the duplication of the bolts here and the spheres. Okay, that's not that bad. Not that bad at all. Okay, let's let's take a look a little bit of rendering because rendering and hopefully we don't crash the stream again. Uh but um but hopefully we um we get some some nice results right here. So, I'm just going to add a very basic sort of like placeholder sphere right now. So, I'm going to go mesh UV sphere. Let's go to the right view. Let's go to wireframe. Delete faces. Delete faces. I'm going to scale on Z. Rotate. And then I'm going to go C view there. Let's go to sculpting real quick. The reason I like sculpting for this movements is because I just find the move brush to be better. It tends it tends to be a little bit easier to get the shapes into place than than trying to poly like modeling and get them exactly where we want. You know what I mean? So, even though this is a very sort of like low poly mesh, it's just way faster to get the idea where I want it. Right. So if you have the right geometry, this becomes so much faster. And eventually we can make this actually that's like really close to what we need, right? [laughter] We're not that far off from the from the actual result here for the helmet. Hey, I want to become a com artist. Can you please tell me which one? Compositing. Um, Nuke and and the Vinci. Those are the ones that are used the most in in the industry. The Vinci is like the free software, but eventually you do want to get the like the premium version of it. Uh, and Nuke is is is paid. It's by the foundry, but it's like the go-to like the m like that. That's the one like the big studios use, right, for for com work. So, so those would be my my advices, my recommendations. Yeah, it's almost done, right? Like the the base is almost there. Let's go back to layout. Yeah, look at that. We got really close there. So, I'm just going to have it right there. Let's go to solid mode, shade smooth, and I am going to add a thickness modifier. So where I what solidify modifier I'm going to go up like that. Let's apply this and then let's um grab the edges. Well, first apply transform and then let's bevel those edges. We go two segments. That's it. So, of course, we need to give the same treatment. We need this thing right here. As I mentioned, this thing I I made a mistake. It's way too far back. So, I need to sort like move it to to this area. Shouldn't be that difficult. like uh probably with the mole brush we can we can get it to to work that way. But let's take a look at at a little bit of the rendering stuff. So, I'm going to save this real quick cuz that they did mention that the rendering stuff was going to be a lot faster. So, let's see if it's true. Which one is better to start modeling for a study, Blender or CBrush? I've never used Blender. Blender. Like, I've mentioned this before and I've mentioned this again. If you want to learn about the 3D world and you've never done absolutely anything in 3D, start with Blender. Why? because you might not like it. You might like video games, you might like movies, you might like all of the things that you can do with 3D, but you might not like the actual process of doing 3D work. So, learn with Blender. Try it out. There's tutorials here on the channel. There's other tutorials, of course, like the famous Donut tutorial. Try those. And if you do like it, then eventually you can move on and try more advanced softwares like Crush, like Maya, like Substance Painter, like Marmma, like Photoshop, like a lot of the other things that you are going to need. But you can always start with Blender. It's going to be free and it's going to be a great way to uh to begin your 3D journey. [laughter] Lord tell him says, "Nah, start with Houdini. Jump right into the deep end." No, man. You you want people to kill themselves. Is transitioning from Maya to Blender easy? Relatively like you could like right now like I would consider myself to be proficient at Blender. I can I can get stuff done, right? Um I could probably get this done a little bit faster instead of Maya and and uh and CBrush. Um, but you can get like again like a really good result relatively relatively quickly and um and you don't require that much um like stuff, right? So, let's download a give me one second here. Let me go full camera cuz we're going to need an HDRI. So, I'm going to quickly go to Poly Haven and download a nice HDRI that we're going to use for our rendering. Uh, let's see. Something that looks, you know, a little bit like ancient the coliseum or something like that would be cool. Not sure if I'm going to be able to find it. [groaning] One's fine. Do lance. One second. Which software help me for freelance most? The Bainy or After Effects? Probably After Effects. But After Effects is not a compositing software. After Effects is uh is like an animation and editing software. So, now that I think about that, maybe um maybe the bini. Okay. So, I'm going to go here to my uh skies or to my world settings and in color, I'm going to bring in an environment texture. And then I'm of course going to open the environment that I just downloaded, which is this one right here. And if I go to Z render view, this is what we're going to get. That was fast and not bad at all. Of course, right now we are in Eevee. Eevee is like the real-time rendering solution that we have here instead of uh of um Blender, which again it's not bad. Going to bring the strength down to like 0.1. I usually don't like my HDRI to be doing the whole work or the whole like u information. So there we go. Let's go to render and let's change this to cycles. Boom. That cycles. Unfortunately, right now cycle is set to CPU. We're going to change that to GPU. That should make it a little bit faster, although a little bit noisier. Well, that's not bad. It's not bad at all to be honest. Yeah, Blender has compositing as well. I haven't used it. Allan Island uses it quite a bit for for animation and for some of our edits on the shorts. Have I enabled optics? No, I'm not. I don't think I'm using optics. Let me check. I'm using CUDA. I'm using CUDA. So, let's D noiseis on the viewport as well. There you go. Yeah, that's fast. That's actually quite fast for the rendering. Now, let's let's do some nice lights here. Um, shift A. Let's add a let's go to the world and I'm going to bring this even lower. So, 01. We have very, very little light. This one we actually missed the material. So, let's add a new material. Definitely going to be metallic. Maybe a little bit rough. And let's go for like a like a nice bronzish color. There you go. Something like that. And then, if I'm not mistaken, the shortcut was to grab everything. Then the last one that you grab is this one. And then you go object link transfer data link materials. There you go. Yeah. See, I haven't forgotten about all that stuff. Do know my way around this this thing. There we go. Shift A light and spotlight. We're going to use, of course, the like traditional. Actually, no. Let's do something a little bit different. We always do the the three-point light setup. So, I'm going to do something different. First of all, I'm going to get rid of this light. There we go. So that we only have the reflection there. And I'm going to use shift a light. And I'm going to do an air light. And this air light is going to be on the top. And it's going to be a really really big area light. So this is more like what we would expect for like a product render, product uh like a presentation. Right click, adjust like power. I'm going to like really overwhelm this right there. Shift D. Get it on one of the sides. Let's draw like a rim light. and then shift D and get it on the other side. There we go. So, we're going to get a nice or like dark band there on the on the center of the of the element. And then we can go here. This is something that I don't like. Oh, they they change it. Nice. Thankfully, they changed this cuz I I hated that you had to use like a black body and things like that to to get like this warm colors. Now, it's it's it's way easier with just like temperature notes. So, now we just um click temperature. Where's the lights? Temperature. And we just make this warmer. Yeah, that's so cool. That That's a good That's a good uh quality of life stuff cuz before you had to use like a black body and and it was just like a mess. Let's give a little bit more light from the HDRI. Maybe a little bit more. Let's do 0 2. And now let's add, of course, a plane here. It's going to act as our as our floor. This is very important whenever you're doing metallic surfaces. You always want to have like a background cuz otherwise the the elements going to just like um what's the word? It's going to it's going to go reflect whatever it is that it's uh like that there's nothing right. So it's not going to reflect anything. We we talked about this on on the last portfolio review which by the way someone was asking when is the next portfolio review? Next week. Next week is the end of the month. So at the end of the month we always have a portfolio review and um and uh we're going to be reviewing portfolios. Make sure to join the Discord. We're going to open the submissions randomly next week. So stay tuned. I believe you can like have yourself or set yourself a notification. So when we do that, I recommend having your like post ready and just like post your art station with your message and that kind of stuff. Let's do a bevel right there. Wait a couple more divisions and shade smooth. And this one I do recommend if your element is going to be very light, make your background darker, right? So that way your your elements going to pop more. And this one I'm definitely going to make it very very rough. Now, why is it looking sort of like beige? Because of the um what's the word of the lights, right? Like the lights are are very light. So So that's why we're getting that sort of like beige effect. Let me push this forward. Want to have a little more of the light like bouncing from the from the helmet. Now this is the cool thing, right? like we're doing all of this pretty much real time and um and it's giving us a nice result. Let's go to the camera. Let's go to view. I like to use camera to view. This is personal preference. That way we can just like map this thing right here. That'll be the render. Now, we do want to probably grab this light right here. push it up. Maybe push it back a little bit so that we don't get like that weird uh shadow that we had. So that the background is a little bit more, you know, interesting. And they did change something. This is one of the things that I wanted to talk about, which is they did change the color management stuff on the render settings. So if we go to render and we go to color management, you can see that by default we're using AGX. So what is this? This is this is the way colors are being mapped so that we see them displayed on our screen. And you can get different like effects right here. By default, like the normal one is this one is standard, but you can see that if you use the standard one that um the the glow effects or the the shiny bits are going to be like way too overexposed. So that's why a lot of people are using AGX now because AGX sort of like tones that down. But I do feel it kills it a little bit and and I don't love it. Um the one that the that they now introduce is this one ASUS 2.0. So this is like the the industries the academy color specific like profile or whatever. This is the one that they used on like Hollywood movies and things like that. So you can try ASUS 1.3 or ASUS 2.0 and you're going to get a color management approach that is you know a little bit like nice or or a little bit like uh like interesting. Um I I do think ASUS is is a good one. But then what you can do here which I really like is you can select any of the aces for instance as 1.3 and then usually there is a option here. How do they not have it here where they could like crunch it a little bit more? You can always change things like the exposure, the gamma and things like that. Uh I think that was only on AGX. Yeah, it was on AGX. So on AGX you can change this to like very high contrast or low contrast or medium high contrast. Again, it's it's depending on how you want, but you need to make sure that you're like, this is the thing, like if you're doing this on a very old monitor, you're not going to be seeing too much of a difference. So, the the screen or the monitor that you're working on, you should have something that that allows you to to display most of this information. And most monitors, like even this tablet right here, the the one that I'm using, it's not like a professional grading tablet. So, you're not going to be able to um to change it as much. But even if you just again just change this to aces, it's it's going to look it's going to look good. Can you help me? Um that if I learn Houdini, nuke and da Vinci so I can get a job on base of the three. Yes. Yes. Like if you learn Houdini, Nuke and Dainci and you learn them to like a very proficient level then those are skills that are very valuable to to production companies. This is more towards like film and and commercial work. I don't do that stuff. I do more like game development stuff. So So yeah, but yeah, it is possible. Would you say HDR is a worth investment monitor wise? Not unless you're doing what a a Rajawad is going to be doing. If you're going to be doing a lot of compositing and like final like image previsualization, then yes, you do need to have like a really nice monitor. If you're doing what I'm doing, which is just like modeling, sculpting, a little bit of rendering, and stuff like that, you don't need to. No, you don't need to. Very well, my friends. Any more questions before we finish today's live stream? Cuz um I think we did a a good uh progress right now. I'm gonna be finishing this off off camera, but I wanted to again like uh get myself out of my comfort zone and do a little bit of like a Blender rendering or Blender modeling and sculpting. I think we did a good thing right here. I think we're we're really really nice here. We're really close. And um yeah, I'm just going to be finishing some of the other pieces that I'm missing and get this quick render perhaps. Yeah, we can do a quick render. If we do render render image, there we go. Now, I do have a a fast computer. I'm doing like 4K samples. So, we can probably get this done in like 10 seconds. It's going to take about 20 for the full image to be This is full HD. This is going to look very nice once we have like proper textures and proper elements, I think. Yeah. And then and then the plume at the top. That's going to be like the the icing on the cake. So, it's looking good. It's looking good. Not not bad. Uh what are processes we will see in stream for this helmet? Not much because I I actually need to do this for for a job that I'm working on. So So I'm going to be finishing this off camera. But um but we're going to have more render more more live streams. We have a lot of live streams. If you haven't seen them before, look. We have live streams about sculpting, about texturing, about rettopology, about pretty much anything on the on the like production pipeline. Cheeto, don't worry, man. Uh I don't want to repeat what I said, but if my knowledge is intermittent, should I post my portfolio for you to review? Yeah, of course. Like the rules is that you have to be doing this for at least a year. If you've been doing 3D for at least a year and you have some pieces that you want me to review, I can review them. If you're about to graduate or if you recently graduated, that's like the best like kind of portfolios. But yeah, have you tried Renderman from Pixar? Not recently, but I did try it like seven years ago. Yeah, like in 2018 2019, I was a huge fan of Renderman. I use it quite a bit for um for for my like my stuff. Uh, but unfortunately it's it's quite pricey and nowadays Arnold can do like pretty much like a lot of stuff. So So you don't need it if you have Maya and Cycles again. As you can see right here, it's quite nice too. Have you tried Blender Octane? No, I don't have a license for that. Are the streams available anywhere for someone who wants to watch later this streams? Yes. Like this like the the normal Friday streams where we do like work and stuff like that, they're available on the YouTube channel. That's one of the things that I tell you guys. I've mentioned this before. Like if you just go to a 3D YouTube right here. So we have videos and these are all of the videos. So every week on Wednesdays we upload a video. We have a lot of videos over 100 videos about a bunch of different topics, bunch of different techniques and stuff like that. And then if you go here to the live, we have all of the lives as well. We have handp painted lives, anatomy study, uh environment sculpting, uh portfolio reviews, of course, hair cards, right? Like people have asked about haircuts. We have a live streams about hair cards. Uh XGen. Yeah, we we've done like a lot of stuff actually. I was really happy. What happened with that one? Like the beard on that one looked quite nice. Uh anyway, yeah. So, we have all of the live streams are here on on the YouTube channel. You can go and check them out. And as I've mentioned before, if you want to learn a little bit more and you want to check the courses, we have a bunch of courses about different like softwares and things like that. So, Octane for Blender is free. Oh, I'm going to I'm going to definitely check that one out. Oh, I didn't know about that. Definitely definitely going to be downloading it then. So, yeah, we have again like a Blender course about the full production for that one. Sever courses, marble designer, rettopology substance, and I'm working on the on the new course that's going to be releasing soon. So, so hopefully you guys uh stay tuned and uh yeah, that's pretty much it, my friends. I'll be seeing you back next week with more 3D information. Make sure to subscribe. It really helps us. We're really close to our new um or to our next milestones here on the channel. Thank you. Thank you very much for all of your support. Follow us in all of the socials. Send us a um what's the word? Um or or go to our Discord channel and make sure you you go there and check all of our news as well. Thank you very much for all of the participants. I will be reaching out today. I do have to do a couple of things before that, but I will be sending you a private DM um with the code and the information about your um your credits for 3DSK. Okay, so thank you very much. Thank you, David. Thank you, uh Alan. Thank you, everyone, for a great stream and I'll be seeing you back next week. Have a great great one, my friends. Bye-bye.