# HOW TO CREATE FANTASY ARMOR IN ZBRUSH (TUTORIAL)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HfRIptAvnQ4
Author: Hristian Shyne

Hello. In the second video in my YouTube channel, I will try to explain how I approach metal metal plates. uh you know the character I recently did Ryan the predominant part was metal metal plates and um I will show you how I uh approach the design the details uh the overall shapes for the metal and um hopefully it will be interesting to you. I will try to take this and um and to do it something like uh like this. Hopefully it will be interesting to you. I will show you as well how to do the ornament parts and this edge detail uh the surface details as well. And uh I'll see you in the breakdown. All right, here we go. uh to uh I will show you how I did this part of the armor. This is not necessarily, you know, how I approach metal, but uh well, it is actually. Uh so, usually I start with low poly of the plate, something like this. uh yesterday because I don't I didn't keep the the original original geometry when I started and I I don't think I have the file but uh I did a quick reto and gun. So let's assume that uh this is your starting point. Uh you can z mesh it. You can uh use uh zmodeler of course to do something simple to extrude to delete and everything. So um let's say you have the the initial the initial shape that you want. Uh quick tip when you work with hard surface and not only hard surface but uh I use a curve I believe it's a brush uh curve a curve. Uh this allows you to use the move brush and uh to create those pointy uh to be more you know like pinch like uh brush and also I use it to make a line more more straighter you know this is not necessarily necessary step but uh you know you can always experiment. So let's assume that this is finished product. Uh don't worry about the topology. I'm going to dyname mesh it anyway. So it's uh not not that important how your topology looks right now. Let's extrude it. Oh, all polygons, not all quads. Uhhuh. So do it like this. When you choose all poly all polygons, it will affect the triangles as well. Huh? Who knew? So, next thing is crease poly groupoup. And uh you go with uh the crease edge and put some edges where you need to be more crisp. Just change the shader so I can see better. I need here. Okay, let's say that this is what you want. You can uh of course manipulate the mesh again as well. Just put a crease here. Okay, we have ourself a plate. Before I d the mesh and continue, uh you know, sometimes it's useful to have the low poly. Let's assume that uh this is the approved [snorts] final version and we will go and take our edge brush. Uh the edges right here around the around the plate looks like this. Very simple geometry turn into IMM uh without the curve. It looks uh like this. See, it's pretty simple. You can do whatever shape you want. So, uh how I approach this is uh like this. You create uh a edge in the middle right here uh in your uh thickness polygons. Increase it. Then you go I believe this in stroke frame mesh creased edges and now you have but it's some grease crease again go to stroke frame mesh okay now now we we have it and choose Oh, this is too much. Usually, you want something that fits the the thickness of the plate. So, it's a bit back and forth. Almost there. And when this is not working, you can always type a number. Okay, let's split masked. Okay, so now we have the mesh. You can subdivide a couple of times. Then go into dynamesh. And uh 400 is a bit too much for starting point. Let's say this is what we want and go with uh the regular smooth. Smooth it out a bit because dynamesh gives you those funky edges for some reason. Okay. So now we have this hard surface plate. You know if you do something sci-fi robotic or anything else this probably will be good for you. But uh we are doing weather medal which went through some battles, some uh bad uh weather and other nasty stuff. So we need to to make it a bit more cool to to tell a story. I really enjoy using this brush. It's called flatten. Everyone have it because it comes with the ZBrush. Uh you can use this uh metal 01 which also comes with ZBrush. I like to increase the the strength of the brush and just go do like this. You can do circular. It doesn't matter. The important part is to you know break the surface to be not that uh nice and smooth. to suggest that this was handmade, not machine made. I don't like this. Let's fix it. Sometimes I'd like to adjust the road distance, make it a bit more harsh, you know, in that way you can make a bit more border strokes. You really don't have a wrong option here. If you have some other technique to to to make metal, it will work. Of course, this is my version. Next thing I'd like to use the clay brush with spray. Choose alpha 18. Lower remove the RGB. Switch to zup and lower it down to two or three. Of course, probably this is a good point to start using layers. Let me just adjust the resolution to bump it up a bit. And with the bigger size, you just go and do something like this. You know, you can switch without between zat and z sub. This imitates the hammered metal. Now, let's say we are done. You don't have to populate everything. Just, you know, I'm just showing you. Then, when you're done, you just go back with uh the flatten brush, tone it down a bit. This creates nice variation that will give us really nice curvature when we bake. Uh if you know that pro but that this probably going to be hidden this part right here for example uh like this you you know you you probably would like to spend less time on it you know to save time if you're in a production but if you're doing something personal it's a good practice to do everything on your So, of course, you can use H polish, trim, dynamic, whichever you prefer. I just like flatten because it stop at at some point. It it doesn't, you know, go through through the mesh. A good tip that I learned that if you're using a centerpiece which this is this is the body armor which is the primarily plate and it's symmetrical when you work on symmetrical and it's going to be and for sure you know it's going to be you know one piece not mirrored it's a good practice to you know break the symmetry at some point because it will look weird. I know you have to save some time, but come on, we are artists. Yeah. When you use the the out with uh with the flatten brush. Just be careful because this can happen. So if you want to use it, back face go wild with it and turn it off. All right, let's see what we got. Very nice. Next layer will be edge destruction. Yes. Yes. Destruct. seek and destroy. Uh you can go lower the focal shift. You have the raw distance up and just go and probably you can lower it down. See why you know don't overdo it. You can always, you know, tone it back with morph target. You need to be careful with the flatten brush because it's very very powerful. The and the the tip about the symmetry also applies here. But uh you can always you know control this with the morph target later on. And uh that way you will save some times populating the edges some damages. Okay, let's try it. So the next part will be we we are going to adjust the edge which we created. So again with the move topological we go with the oi curve. Okay, just piece of advice. When you have something like this, when you mirror and weld, select the middle here as well. Move it just a bit [snorts] in the side. And now you have a perfect edge. So we are going to use a combination between Zoder and move brushes. You will see why in a minute. I'm just going to speed it up a bit There. Okay, so we fitted it. Of course, we can always go back and just to be sure that everything will work fine. We will go because this also going to be dynameshed. Don't get it twisted. Uh no, we are going back and crease all the edges, the pointy ones. Okay, let's move on. I'll just go and make a duplicate. Subdivide a couple of times. Not that much. And just find a resolution that will work for you. Okay. Oops. We made a mistake. We forgot to crease this edge. Go on with the smooth brush and make it a bit more softer. bit more nice to work It's Why I don't uh use the zero mesh version? I really really don't know. But uh sometimes the when you have a lower lower density lower density mesh, it doesn't, you know, work well with when you try to do some detailing. So I prefer to dynam it. It's going to be retalled later later on anyway, so it doesn't matter really. This angle here I don't like okay so this look pretty nice I assume let's create layer store a morph target. Get our flatten brush, lower the intensity, and just go and make some surface break up. Don't go too crazy over the edges as well because this is a small detail and it's going to be nice to be here when you bake it and catch the curvature. But, you know, it's not necessary to to be really visible, to be really harsh. Okay. You see when you break up the edges around the around the plate, it create this effect of separation between the edge and the plate. And this later on can be used with the texturing to put some dirt, some ambient occlusion there to make everything pop pop up a bit more. All right. So, let's put some bolts. I created this brush. This is nothing special. Excuse me. This is just half a sphere. All right. Layers. Let's create a duplicate. Kill the layers. One poly group. uh when you work with drag rectangle IM brush and for example you want to be consistent with the size let's say number three you like this size and uh if you want uh to instead of eyeballing it you can always hold control for example click click and drag and then hit control and it uh will create those IMMs with the same size. Uh if you have IMM like this, you can always go to play with the depth because some sometimes it can be you know hovering over the mesh and this will create problem. Well, not huge problem but you have to place it back. After you place your bolts, probably would like to separate them. Now, since they are really low poly, we can subdivide couple of times. I'd like to go with the flatten brush and destroy them like so. This create really nice effect that this these bolts are actually you know hammered and put into really big pressure hold the metal down. Then I switch to clear u clay buildup and create those. Usually I like to up my row distance but for this I like to keep it at one because create those uneven details. Let's create some chipping and holes around it. Okay. So, next part will be use using one of my favorite brushes, which is slash brush. Lower the intensity down. But before we do this, uh, some things I'd like to sometimes do, but probably you can you can do this after laying down your details is going with the contrast delta, put it on spray, then uh, you know, keep in mind that this might crash, but uh, it's sometimes it's nice to, you know, to put some strongs around here and there to amplify some of the details and um since we lay down the work for metal details, it really create those I don't know happy accidents which can be useful, you know, for the before or after laying down your details. But when you have the details, it will you know pick more more information. Also combine it with the smooth peaks. All right. So, we we're going to pick the slash brush. Let's do it. Let's do it on one one side. And let's create this these kind of details very slowly, very nicely. This suggests some damaging around the edges between the edge mesh and the edges around the plate. Of course, you don't have to do that every everywhere, but really gives it nice nice pop-up detail effect. Not detail, sorry. You can always create some, you know, jagged line. Don't don't need to be more straight. Whoa, look at this right here. I'm not doing it symmetrically because we removed some of the edges with more target. Okay. So, since we create those holes here, we can always go and create something like this around it. It really creates this effect that actually was embedded by force by some blacksmith that was in a hurry or it was, you know, the the weather and time actually that did those boats no justice. Okay. So you can go with them standard create a scratch or a crack. Then with orc grap you can uh amplify the depth and go with the slider brush create those edges around it. Uh I know for a fact that uh when you bake the curvature we will catch those and we'll create something really nice. And uh since this uh you know have a lot of depth in it you can uh always play with uh ambient occlusion to add dirt dust and other stuff. This is why I like this brush because it's universal. You can do everything with it in it. Maybe. Okay. So, also you can do uh damages not just around the boats. Let's try Let's create a big dent here, but on a different layer. This big dent indicates that someone actually hit the character and didn't find him funny. Nah, I don't like this. Okay. So, we are almost there. Uh with the details, not with the finished product, not at all. So, the next part will be adding the details, the surface details. Uh my suggestion will be, you know, not to go too crazy with it because after all, this is a metal and we'll have to put a lot of stuff in substance as well. I will speed up here because I don't want to bore you. You know, it's just uh placing alphas. So, it's not something special. And uh I'll come back and discuss it. So, we are done with uh the surface details. Now, I'd like to go and add a bit of contrast negative smooth. And this makes everything a bit more, you know, crispy. Turn it off. More target. And lower it down significantly. Okay. Let's turn it down a bit here and there. All right. So this is pretty much finished metal plate. Sometimes I'd like to when you have UVs, but this also works with not UVs as well. I'd like to go and add some uh surface noise that comes with ZBrush. I don't like to apply it to mesh. I'd like to mask it. Separate layer. Just inflate it a bit. Is it going to work or not? Whoa. Right. Turn it off. Morph target. Turn it on. Switch. Let's pick our morph target brush and just put it here and there to make it subtle. Let's just do one more. won't do this. Okay. So, let's start working on those ornaments. I usually go create a duplicate mesh, cue all the layers and just go and in zero uh negative inflated with around.3 just enough to be hidden inside of the big one. You can redynsh of course. Okay. So this is pretty much inside. Now what you want to do is go and take a chisel brush. Create some tip that probably you would you would prefer. Pull it to Z. uh lower down the intensity because uh the stronger it is the this will be you know more inflated over the original plate and this can give you some problems while uh rtopo. So I will try to you know draw something here and I'll show you how I proceed. So I'll speed it up here. All right. So, let's say that this is our ornament. Uh, always use the lazy mouse. Uh, when you use a tablet, you can go from thin to thicker line uh using the pressure of course. So uh when you do this when uh you have your base to to to work on next step will be redynamesh because uh this is quite this geometry is quite distorted and you go with smooth peaks and you know massage it down to something acceptable. So get your clay build up. You can increase the row uh the road uh distance and you just go and uh start sculpting. The goal here is to, you know, fill the gaps which the stroke made and to make everything more consistent and u better looking. After all, this is a sculpting program. So, don't forget it. With standard just standard you can uh sharpen your strokes. And with D standard, you can always control, you know, if you turn off, if you isolate the mesh, it doesn't look that good. But, uh, on top of the already made plate does the job pretty nice. Pretty well. You know, it's it's a lot of back and forth. So, you know, don't be discouraged if it doesn't happen from the first try. I spent a lot of time on this character, but I didn't have a concept. So, this is This is quite can be quite tricky when you don't have a concept. Even though I liked some stuff that I saw online and tried to replicate them, but the majority was, you know, my design. So, let's put some metal taste on top of those ornaments. Let's destroy the surface. Next thing we'll go to our standard brush probably choose this uh alpha 01. You can do it without alpha. It doesn't matter really. and just go and create those kind of strokes to create some 3D effect that those lines are not just put there by stamp or anything but they're grafted on uh on on top of this plate to create some nice edges. This is why I told you also one of the reasons I told you not to use high high intensity on the chisel brush because now we can put those details and not make it too not too strong. If you do this for a game dev, you know my former lead mitro told me always to think about how how I will do the low poly of it. You have to think, you know, a couple of steps ahead. Is is this going to take time? Is is this going to be, you know, separate piece, one piece? How you're going to rettop out the boats? I will show you, you know, my low poly. You know, I I pretty much top out everything like on one piece and uh put some um IDs on the plate, on the ornaments, edges, and bolts. I separate them with four different colors. Three, I don't know. I don't remember. Three or four different colors. And I had the opportunity to choose how to separate them inside of Substance. All right, we are getting closer. So, let's go back to the plate and we can create another layer. You guessed it. You know, you don't have to use layers. I just like to work with layers because give me you know opportunity to go back fix stuff. Uh and uh you know you don't have to do this. This is just my way of working. Uh here we are going to create this uh embedded effect that uh we will probably we will suggest that we'll suggest not probably we'll suggest that this uh guy actually you know made those ornaments on top of the this plate. it will add a bit depth to the whole the whole picture. Hopefully I will able to create something similar because well this was done a long time ago. And uh let's let's get started. Again we can start with standard brush with this alpha and just uh draw draw a line around the around the ornaments. But this will make, you know, everything pop a bit more and also will help us when we bake. It will create nice effects. And um for example, when I textured the Ryan, I was able to isolate this small area around here between the the ornaments and the plate and give it uh some small details. But um you know, it make everything pop a bit more. For example, I separated I when this was separated the roughness for example of the two metals because th those were two metals. I made one a bit shinier than the other. This also helped. But uh when you put a bit more dark color around because this was gold I believe and when you put the dark color around it, it make it uh you know shine brighter. One of the things that I forgot to mention that uh when you do those ornaments, you have to be careful because when you do the details and they're um asymmetrical, sometimes uh the ornaments won't look uh symmetrical at all. Some of the parts will be hidden, some of the parts uh uh will be more exposed and uh you have to go back and fix it by hand. Also when when you rtop this also going to be you know asymmetrical. So keep that in mind as well. All right. So the next step will be we're going to take the demium standard brush. We will go to transparent. When you push, when you press transparent, you can uh draw on top of for example, you can draw now. You can't or you can, but you won't see. But when you push transparent, you can draw through the mesh that's on top. And we'll add here and there detail of deeper cut. This will help us exaggerate a bit the depth filling around the ornaments and we'll make everything a bit more nice. How nice. Way nice. I would like to remind you that I'm not any kind of expert. So take my words, don't take my words. I really don't know. I would like I just want to share knowledge to the community and also to keep myself busy because I still don't have a job. If you're someone who's watching this video and want character artist, please let me know. All right, we're getting closer. And now we're going to take the slash brush with even lower intensity. I told you I use this brush for everything. You just go and draw some edges around and give more love to this details because everyone everything deserve a bit more love. In this crow crew world. All right. Let's add some surface details to the ornaments as well. Okay, let's create a layer. Always pick the surface option when you put some alphas. Since this is only just small part of the entire plate, you know, just don't go too crazy with the details. When you put your details, I I like to go back with smooth peaks and just um massage it a bit up to be too because the quality of this alpha is not that good and make everything a bit more jagged than I would prefer. Let me just try something else. H. Let's see. Let's go with the contrast delta. It's too uniform. Don't like it. and uh yeah I think we are done here. You can always, you know, go and add contrast and uh smooth on a layer and tone it down. Also, when you put some uh details, just remember that some of it might pop up like this. And uh this also will be bake baked and uh it's not not [snorts] a good option. It will make your ID mask look uh sloppy and will also project some uh material on top of the other which it's not going to be good. Well, I think we got it. This is the new plate I created. Here it is. works well with the others. Hopefully you enjoyed this tutorial and you learn learn something new. Uh follow follow me for more. Probably I will share more insights of this character, other characters and uh hopefully it will be interesting to you and uh have a nice day. And here we are in the end of our journey to create metal plates for our fantasy character. This is how it looks uh in um in the engine. Fully textured, fully light, fully lit lit light. Oh no, sorry. Uh so yeah, as you can see, all the details are here captured by the baking. And these are the details I showed you for uh with the slash brush. As you can see here, we have some nice dents. Uh you see how the the smaller dirt in the uh in the cavities make uh the lighter colors pop. Also here you see how the curvature got the edge of the depth embedded detail. It was uh you know the same for the entire character. So pretty much everything is everywhere is the same here on the helmet as well. So yeah, hopefully you know you like it and see you on the next video.